Following his term in the Senate , Beckham resumed his legal practice in Louisville . He sought another term as governor in 1927 . This time he had the support of the Louisville Courier @-@ Journal , which had been purchased by his ally , Robert W. Bingham . He was opposed by a powerful political machine known as the Jockey Club , whose main interest was securing legislation to allow parimutuel betting at the state 's horse racetracks .The Jockey Club ran a candidate in both parties ' primary elections . In the Democratic primary Beckham defeated the Club 's relatively obscure candidate , Robert T. Crowe . Flem D. Sampson , the Club 's nominee in the Republican primary , won his party 's nomination . In the general election Beckham could not secure the support of Democratic governor William J. Fields , who had been elected with the help of the Jockey Club . Despite the Democrats winning every other contest on the ballot , including the race for lieutenant governor , Beckham lost to Sampson by more than 32 @,@ 000 votes . It was estimated that the Club spent over $ 500 @,@ 000 to defeat him .Beckham was expected to be the Democrats ' nominee for governor in 1935 , but the death of his son in late 1934 left him distraught and his wife opposed to another campaign . The Democrats turned to A. B. " Happy " Chandler of Henderson , who won the election . Beckham supported Chandler 's bid , and in return Chandler appointed him to the Kentucky Public Service Commission in 1936 . Beckham also served on the Department of Business Regulations Commission and chaired the State Government Reorganization Commission .Beckham attempted to return to the Senate in 1936 . The head of the Jockey Club , James B. Brown , had lost his fortune and influence when his banking empire crashed in 1930 . In 1933 Beckham 's ally , Robert Bingham , had been appointed ambassador to the Court of St. James 's , increasing his prominence and influence . Beckham also enjoyed the support of the United Mine Workers and Louisville mayor Neville Miller . The race was complicated , though , by the entry of John Y. Brown , a Democrat who was a U.S. Representative and former Speaker of the Kentucky House of Representatives . He had agreed to support Chandler 's bid for the governorship in exchange for Chandler 's support in his run for the Senate . However , Chandler threw his support to Beckham , and while Brown was not able to win the seat without the support of Bingham and Chandler , he did garner 85 @,@ 000 votes , most of them at Beckham 's expense . Democratic incumbent M. M. Logan retained the seat by 2 @,@ 385 votes .Beckham died in Louisville on January 9 , 1940 , and was buried in Frankfort Cemetery in Frankfort , Kentucky . Beckham County , Oklahoma , was named in his honor at the suggestion of a Kentuckian who was serving as a delegate to Oklahoma 's constitutional convention in 1907 . Wickland , his birthplace , was added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 16 , 1973 .