The consortium took possession of the mill in November 1979 . The first priority was to make the mill as weathertight as possible . Polythene sheets were spread on the dust floor of the mill to prevent further water penetration of the structure . The mill was surveyed and recorded . In spring 1980 , the dust floor partially collapsed and was removed as a safety measure . Scaffolding was erected to allow the fanstage to be dismantled , and the cap centering wheels were removed in preparation for the removal of the cap frame .A two @-@ week work @-@ in was held at the end of July and beginning of August 1980 . Thirty @-@ three volunteers worked on the mill over the work @-@ in . Two new main floor beams for the dust floor were made from baulks of pitch pine which had previously been in a maltings at Bury St Edmunds . On 3 August 1980 , the windshaft and remaining sail fragments were removed by a mobile crane , followed by the cap frame and the cast @-@ iron curb sections .New oak joists were laid on the dust floor and temporary boarding laid to provide a working platform for repairs to the top of the mill tower . The bin floor was removed , apart from one oak main beam which was repairable . A replacement main beam was made from pitch pine , and the oak beam was repaired . New oak joists were fitted , along with some salvaged from the original floor which were fit to be reused . One of these had previously been a whip from a Common sail . Some of the joists were made from pitch pine from the Eastbridge Windpump , which , following its collapse on 19 February 1977 , had been re @-@ erected at the Museum of East Anglian Life , Stowmarket . The sack hoist was dismantled to enable its repair , brickwork was repaired , and new lintels were made for some of the windows . A tarpaulin was secured over the mill tower to keep the weather out over winter . The floorboards on the bin floor were replaced and one of the two pairs of millstones was removed .The work was financed by grants of £ 500 from the Council for the Preservation of Rural Essex , £ 250 from St Edmundsbury Borough Council , £ 200 from the Scarfe Trust , and £ 200 from the Suffolk Mills Group . Other donations and income amounted to £ 65 , with the balance of expenditure being met jointly by the five owners .The " work @-@ in " was reported in both local and national media , including BBC Look East , Bury Free Press , Eastern Daily Press , East Anglian Daily Times , Daily Telegraph , and Radio Orwell .