In the 1981 season two separate work @-@ ins were held , the first from 25 July to 2 August and the second from 22 August to 30 August . A total of 37 volunteers participated over the two weeks .The millstones were removed from the stone floor , which was then repaired . One of the main beams was found to have been attacked by Death Watch beetles , and over a third of the elm beam was replaced with oak . The six supports for the hurst frame were repaired one at a time , as they bore the whole of the weight of the machinery above . One post required replacement . It had rotted and the floor had sunk by 4 inches ( 100 mm ) causing the second main floor beam to fracture . When this work had been completed , the stone floor was removed , including the second main floor beam , which was removed in one piece so that the most suitable route to install its replacement could be assessed .The new main beam for the stone floor was installed and the ground floor was concreted . The stone floor was reconstructed , reusing the old stone bearers and those joists that were fit for reuse . Other joists were made new from oak or pitch pine . New floorboards were laid in the dust floor , the 1 1 ⁄ 4 inches ( 32 mm ) thick elm boards being double @-@ grooved with a metal tongue between them . Those on the bin floor are of a similar configuration . The top four courses of brickwork of the mill tower were removed and work began on rebuilding them , aided by a trammel attached to the upright shaft .During the second work @-@ in , the remainder of the stone floor was boarded , again using double @-@ grooved boards with a metal tongue between them . The window on the dust floor was rebuilt and the reconstruction of the top four courses of brickwork continued . The top two courses were rebuilt with red engineering bricks . The dust floor window had a reinforced concrete lintel cast as the tower was weak at this point and had distorted . The windshaft , the curb segments and fantail gearing were given two coats of red lead paint . A new finial for the cap was made from a piece of oak 3 feet ( 910 mm ) long by 16 inches ( 410 mm ) diameter . A start was made on removing the old pointing on the brickwork and repointing with gauged mortar .After the work @-@ in had finished , the boarding of the stone floor was completed and the mill thoroughly cleaned in preparation for an open day which was held in late autumn . The work done in 1981 cost £ 3 @,@ 250 . Donations received were £ 2 @,@ 000 from Rank Xerox , £ 1 @,@ 704 from the Historic Buildings Council and £ 130 from St Edmundsbury Borough Council . Other donations and income received amounted to £ 70 . The project received further coverage in local media , the Eastern Daily Press , and South Norfolk News .