Work in the early part of 1983 was mainly confined to smaller jobs such as casting various brasses and overhaul of the various parts of the fantail drivetrain and mechanism for controlling the Patent sails . The mill was generally made as safe as possible inside in preparation for scheduled visits , including one from the Wind and Watermill Section of the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings . Other work included the overhaul of the final drive to the 4 feet 7 inches ( 1 @.@ 40 m ) stones , including dismantling the stone nut and replacement of three cogs in beech .When the weather improved , work commenced outside . The cap circle was mostly constructed before the first work @-@ in commenced . The work @-@ ins took place over two separate weeks in July and August , with 35 people participating . During the first work @-@ in , the fantail posts and braces were fitted . The oak cap ribs , which had been prefabricated offsite were fitted and the finial was supported by scaffolding ready for final fitting . Intermdiate noggings of oak were fitted and the finial was pulled into position using a windlass . The cap frame was competed with the fitting of intermediate ribs and noggings . The rear of the cap circle was also completed during this time .Between the two work @-@ ins , the rear dormer was completed and the fitting of noggings to the cap frame completed . This enabled a start to be made on boarding the cap on the Monday of the second work @-@ in . The boards for the cap are ½ inch ( 13 mm ) thick and 9 inches ( 230 mm ) wide at the petticoat , tapering towards the top . A new neck bearing was installed under the windshaft , not without difficulty and much machining before it would fit . When the boarding of the cap was completed , the cover strips were fitted over the joints . The petticoat was drawn into position using a rope and windlass , and the galvanised steel reinforcing band screwed into position , producing a sturdy structure . The striking rod was fitted through the windshaft and the axle for the fantail fitted in position on top of the fantail posts . At the top of the mill tower , the curb was prepared to accept the cap , and the cast iron curb track plates bolted into position . Repointing of the brickwork of the tower continued , with nearly half of it completed at the end of the second work @-@ in .After the work @-@ ins had ended , work continued on finishing the cap which was scheduled for lift @-@ on in October . The weather hampered the work initially , but the application of a modern microporous paint , designed to withstand normal movement of the timber and yet remain waterproof , was completed in time for the lift @-@ on . A mini work @-@ in was held the weekend before the cap was lifted , with 17 people participating over the weekend . Final work was done to the cap and a new window was fitted to the stone floor of the mill . The tarpaulin was removed and the trammel dismantled . The 5 @-@ ton cap was lifted into place by a mobile crane on 24 October 1983 , watched by a crowd of some 70 people . The fitting of the cap was toasted with beer from Adnams Brewery , Southwold .Restoration work in 1983 cost £ 1 @,@ 408 . Grants were received from the Association of Independent Museums , Blo ' Norton Women 's Institute , Ipswich Historical Transport Society , the National Association for Gifted Children , Mr D. Porter and the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings . Further income came from the sale of guide books and a drawing of the mill by Wilf Foreman .