Four work @-@ ins were held during 1984 . The first two were by apprentices from Eastern Electricity Board . Thelnetham Windmill was chosen at the project to benefit from the Young Person 's Development Project for that year . Pakenham Watermill had previously benefited from the project , and its owners , the Suffolk Preservation Trust , had suggested that Thelnetham Windmill would be a good candidate for the scheme . Two separate parties spent a week each at the mill . A mains electricity supply was provided . An underground cable was laid with assistance from British Telecom who were trialling a thrust borer which had been developed at their research facility at Martlesham Heath . The thrust borer laid 25 yards ( 23 m ) of ducting through which the mains cable was pulled into position . The mill was then supplied with lights and sockets on each floor .Other work undertaken by the apprentices involved repairing some frost damage to the foundation brickwork , digging a drainage trench around the mill and moving the auxiliary engine into position . A concrete path around the tower was trapping moisture , leading to rising damp . A French drain was constructed around the mill to remedy these problem . A 21 horsepower ( 16 kW ) Ruston & Hornsby 4YHR diesel engine had been purchased in 1981 and was fitted onto a permanent concrete base with the aid of a mobile crane . After fitting it was then painted . Some missing or broken parts were made or repaired as necessary .Off @-@ site , the new brake wheel and fantail were made . The original brake wheel was too rotten to repair , and showed evidence that it had been altered from the original one installed in 1819 . The original brake wheel was 6 feet ( 1 @.@ 83 m ) diameter to allow the Common sails to run at their optimum speed . When the mill was modernised in 1832 it was necessary to alter the gear ratios within the mill , as Patent sails run at a slower speed than Common sails . The great spur wheel was increased in diameter and the stone nuts reduced in diameter . The brake wheel was also rebuilt , with a cast iron segment ring fitted in place of the original cogs , resulting in a wheel 7 feet 2 inches ( 2 @.@ 18 m ) in diameter . The opinion of professional millwrights was sought , and it was decided that a scaled @-@ up version of the original brake wheel would be made , but retaining the cast iron teeth segments . The remains of the original brake wheel were retained as an exhibit in the mill . The original iron segments were all broken , so a pattern was made and new segments were cast in heat @-@ treated malleable cast iron . When the brake wheel was completed it was dismantled and transported to the mill ready for reassembly .The fantail was made . Some of the small gears were replaced . The stocks were made from pitch pine and the blades from Douglas fir . Work at the mill over the winter included repairs to the brickwork and windows , with only one window still needing attention when the first work @-@ in began . New beech cogs were fitted to the crown wheel , which was restored to its correct position on the upright shaft .The stocks and sails were made during the two work @-@ ins held in July and August , a total of 41 people attending over the two weeks . A second @-@ hand stock had been bought in the 1920s and preserved at the mill , but upon examination it was found to be unfit for use . Thus two new stocks were required instead of one . Modern steel stocks had already been discounted on cost and durability grounds , leaving two options . Traditional stocks made from a single piece of timber , or laminated stocks . Good quality pitch pine was not obtainable in the lengths required . Douglas fir was obtainable in such lengths but was discounted on strength and durability grounds . A Douglas fir stock on a nearby mill had rotted after only seven years . Thus it was decided that laminated stocks would be made .The 52 feet ( 15 @.@ 85 m ) long stocks were made from Douglas fir . All timber had been pressure treated with preservative and well seasoned . It was estimated that a laminated stock would be up to 20 % stronger than a similar stock of solid timber . The timber used was 1 1 ⁄ 2 inches ( 38 mm ) thick and nine laminations were required at the centre , where the stock passes through the poll end of the windshaft . Careful attention was paid to where individual joints occurred between different pieces of timber . Both stocks were made during the work @-@ in , with one of them being trimmed and finished ready for use . The stocks were the first laminated stocks made by amateurs .The four sails were made . The originals being slightly different pairs . Those on the inner stock having bays of 3 feet ( 910 mm ) pitch and those on the outer stock having bays of 3 feet 2 inches ( 970 mm ) pitch . It was decided that the new sails would be identical , at the larger pitch . Four 27 feet ( 8 @.@ 23 m ) long whips were cut from a baulk of pitch pine obtained from a demolished maltings at Bury St Edmunds . The whips are 6 inches ( 150 mm ) square at their inner end . Sail bars and uplongs were made from modern pitch pine , selected for quality . The mortices for the sail bars were cut . That at the heel of the sail being at 27 ° and that at the tip being 15 ° , decreasing by 1 ½ ° at each sail bar . Three of the four sails had been completed at the end of the work in .The fantail and associated gearing was fitted to the mill . At the end of the second work @-@ in , the cap could be turned by means of the hand crank . The fantail itself , with the blades painted red , white and blue was installed shortly afterwards . The clasp arm brake wheel was assembled around the windshaft . It was found that the wallower was eccentric on the upright shaft by ½ inch ( 13 mm ) . When this was corrected the brake wheel was within 1 / 16 th of an inch ( less than 1 mm ) of true . The clamps for the stocks were sawn from a baulk of pitch pine ready for completion later in the year . Other work included a new frame for one of the ground floor doors , cleaning and painting ironwork and further repointing on the brickwork . The four sails were fitted to the mill with the aid of a mobile crane at the end of the second work @-@ in . The stock , with one sail attached was carefully inserted through the poll end of the windshaft and when wedged in position and the clamps had been attached the second sail was fitted to the stock . The process was repeated for the second pair of sails . The mill turned by wind again on the last day of the second work @-@ in .Work later in the year included the finishing of the fourth sail , balancing the fantail and sorting out teething troubles with the fantail gearing . The brake and brake lever were made and installed and shutter cranks for the sails were cast .Restoration work in 1984 cost £ 2 @,@ 918 . Grants received were £ 1 @,@ 209 from English Heritage , £ 500 from St Edmundsbury Borough Council , Other donations amounted to £ 52 . Income from open days at the mill came to £ 151 . A boost to the funds was £ 2 @,@ 000 from Hervey Benham . This money had been allocated to allow the moving of a derelict post mill buck to Thelnetham . In the end , the removal was not proceeded with , and Mr Benham allowed the donation to remain with the Thelnetham Mill Preservation Trust . The project received further support in local media , including the East Anglian Daily Times , one of the work @-@ ins being featured on Anglia Television 's About Anglia programme .