In 2000 , producer David Heyman asked Radcliffe to audition for the role of Harry Potter for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone , the best @-@ selling book by British author J. K. Rowling . Rowling had been searching for an unknown British actor to personify the character , and the movie 's director Chris Columbus recalled thinking , " This is what I want . This is Harry Potter " , after he saw a video of the young actor in David Copperfield . Eight months later , and after several auditions , Radcliffe was selected to play the part . Rowling also endorsed the selection saying , " I don 't think Chris Columbus could have found a better Harry . " Radcliffe 's parents originally turned down the offer , as they had been told that it would involve six films shot in Los Angeles . Warner Bros. instead offered Radcliffe a two @-@ movie contract with shooting in the UK ; Radcliffe was unsure at the time if he would do any more than that .The release of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( released as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer 's Stone in the United States ) took place in 2001 . Radcliffe received a seven figure salary for the lead role , but asserted that the fee was " not that important " to him ; his parents chose to invest the money for him . The film was highly popular and was met with positive reviews , and critics took notice of Radcliffe : " Radcliffe is the embodiment of every reader 's imagination . It is wonderful to see a young hero who is so scholarly looking and filled with curiosity and who connects with very real emotions , from solemn intelligence and the delight of discovery to deep family longing , " wrote Bob Graham of the San Francisco Chronicle .A year later Radcliffe starred in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets , the second installment of the series . Reviewers were positive about the lead actors ' performances but had polarised opinions on the movie as a whole . The 2004 release Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was the third film in the series . Radcliffe 's performance was panned by New York Times journalist A. O. Scott , who wrote that Watson had to carry him with her performance . Next was Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire in 2005 . The film was the second @-@ highest grossing Harry Potter film at that point , and Radcliffe singled out the humour as being a reason for the movie 's creative success .The future of the franchise was put into question when Radcliffe and his co @-@ leads Emma Watson and Rupert Grint hesitated signing on to continue their roles for the final two episodes ; however , by March 2007 Radcliffe had signed for the final films , which put an end to weeks of press " speculation that he would be denied the role due to his involvement in Equus " , in which he had performed nude on stage . Radcliffe reprised his role for the fourth time in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix ( 2007 ) . Radcliffe stated that director David Yates and actress Imelda Staunton made Order of the Phoenix the " most fun " film in the series to work on . His performance earned several award nominations , and he received the 2008 National Movie Award for " Best Male Performance . " As his fame and the series continued , Radcliffe , Grint , and Watson left imprints of their hands , feet , and wands in front of Grauman 's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood . In July 2009 Harry Potter and the Half @-@ Blood Prince was released , the series ' sixth instalment . Radcliffe received nominations for " Best Male Performance " and " Global Superstar " at the 2010 MTV Movie Awards .For financial and scripting reasons the last book was divided into two films , shot back to back , which drew criticism from the series ' fanbase . Radcliffe defended the split , stating that it would have been impossible to properly adapt the final novel into a single film . He added that the last movie was going to be extremely fast @-@ paced with a lot of action , while the first part would be far more sedate , focusing on character development ; he added that , had they combined them , those things would not have made it to the final cut . Filming lasted for a year , concluding in June 2010 and on the last day of shooting , like most of the cast and crew , Radcliffe openly wept .The final film , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 , was released in July 2011 . Radcliffe , along with the film , was critically acclaimed : Ann Hornaday of The Washington Post asked , " Who could have predicted that Radcliffe , Grint and Watson would turn out to be good actors ? " ; similarly , Rex Reed said : " Frankly , I ’ m sorry to see [ Radcliffe ] go " ; while Rolling Stone critic Peter Travers commented on Radcliffe : " Well played , sir . " Roger Ebert gave the film a highly positive review , but felt that Radcliffe , Grint and Watson were " upstaged by the supporting [ actors ] . "Radcliffe admitted that some people would never be able to separate him from the character , but also said he is " proud to be associated with this film series forever . " Despite positive feelings about the movies , he has no interest in doing more Harry Potter films . After Rowling hinted about writing an eighth book , Radcliffe was asked if he would do another film to which he replied : " [ It is ] very doubtful . I think 10 years is a long time to spend with one character . " Despite devoting so much time to the series , Radcliffe has asserted that he did not miss out on a childhood like other child actors : " I ’ ve been given a much better perspective on life by doing Potter . "