Radcliffe made his film debut in The Tailor of Panama , an American 2001 film based on John le Carré 's 1996 spy novel , and a moderate commercial success . In 2002 he made his stage debut as a celebrity guest in a West End theatre production of The Play What I Wrote , directed by Kenneth Branagh – who also appeared with him in the second Harry Potter film . In 2007 he appeared in the film December Boys , an Australian family drama about four orphans that was shot in 2005 and released to theatres in mid @-@ September 2007 . Also in 2007 , Radcliffe co @-@ starred with Carey Mulligan in My Boy Jack , a television drama film shown on ITV on Remembrance Day . The film received mostly positive reviews , with several critics praising Radcliffe 's performance as an 18 @-@ year @-@ old who goes missing in action during a battle . Radcliffe stated , " For many people my age , the First World War is just a topic in a history book . But I 've always been fascinated by the subject and think it 's as relevant today as it ever was . "At age 17 , in a bid to show people he was prepared for adult roles , he performed onstage in Peter Shaffer 's play Equus , which had not been revived since its first run in 1973 , at the Gielgud Theatre . Radcliffe took on the lead role as Alan Strang , a stable boy who has an obsession with horses . Advance sales topped £ 1 @.@ 7 million , and the role generated significant pre @-@ opening media interest , as Radcliffe appeared in a nude scene . Equus opened on 27 February 2007 and ran until 9 June 2007 . Radcliffe 's performance received positive reviews as critics were impressed by the nuance and depth of his against @-@ type role . Charles Spencer of The Daily Telegraph wrote that he " displays a dramatic power and an electrifying stage presence that marks a tremendous leap forward . " He added : " I never thought I would find the diminutive ( but perfectly formed ) Radcliffe a sinister figure , but as Alan Strang ... there are moments when he seems genuinely scary in his rage and confusion . " The production then transferred to Broadway in September 2008 , with Radcliffe still in the lead role . Radcliffe stated he was nervous about repeating the role on Broadway because he considered American audiences more discerning than those in London . Radcliffe 's performance was nominated for a Drama Desk Award .