In 1469 Shetland came under nominal Scottish control , although the Norse ' Lairds of Norway ' kept their Papa Stour estates until the 17th century . In the 16th century merchants from Bremen and Hamburg were operating a summer trading booth to buy fish from the local fleet . By the 18th century , two Scottish lairds , Thomas Gifford of Busta , and Arthur Nicolson of Lerwick , owned the island . They maintained a prosperous Haaf ( Old Norse : ' deep sea ' ) fishing industry , undertaken in the summer months using six @-@ oared boats known as sixareens .In addition to the leper colony on Brei Holm there may have been another at Hilla Fielle overlooking Hamna Voe . A recent archaeological survey was inconclusive but suggests the site may be much older than the supposed 18th century colony .The island church , which overlooks Kirk Sand in the bay of Fore Wick , was founded in 1806 . 300 metres from the present church there may be an older chapel site of Sneeans or Snøyans on the headland between the west end of Kirk Sand and the bay of Tusselby . It is called the ' ald kirk ' by locals and referred to by the Ordnance Survey as " the site of a Romish chapel belonging to about the twelfth century " . There is a tradition that the work there was interfered with by supernatural powers and that each day 's work on the building was destroyed during the night . Eventually the cornerstones were moved overnight by these unearthly agencies to the present site of the church and work was re @-@ commenced there successfully . Excavations in 2004 found little besides large blocks of rhyolite and a piece of whalebone rib , suggesting that the oral tradition may have some truth to it .In the 19th century the Crabbaberry fishing station in West Voe was opened and the island had a population of 360 people or more . However , fuel shortages and a decline in fishing due to the introduction of steam drifters saw a fall in population from the 1870s on . At this time another duel entered the history of Papa Stour . Edwin Lindsay , an Indian army officer and the son of the 6th Earl of Balcarres , was declared insane and sent to the island in disgrace after refusing to fight in one . He spent 26 years as a prisoner before the Quaker preacher Catherine Watson arranged for his release in 1835 . Lindsay 's Well is a spring at the south of the island where he was allowed to bathe .There are good examples of horizontal water mills , also known as Norse or Clack Mills , around Dutch Loch . Originally these were two story buildings with turf roofs , built into banks to give access to the upper floor where the mill @-@ stone was sited . Inside the building there was a fixed lower millstone , and a rotating upper millstone driven by the water falling onto the paddles below . Some were still in use on Papa Stour in the early years of the 20th century , and there is still a working example of one of these mills on the Burn of Clumlie , at Troswick in the south Mainland of Shetland .