A total of 2 @,@ 000 people attended Slammiversary , while the The Wrestling Observer Newsletter reported that 20 @,@ 000 people bought the event . Canadian Online Explorer writer Jon Waldman rated the entire event a 7 out of 10 , which was lower than the 8 out of 10 given to the 2007 edition by Jason Clevett . The 7 out of 10 was the same rating given to the 2009 edition by Chris and Bryan Sokol . The previous PPV event Sacrifice and TNA 's next PPV event Victory Road both received a 7 out of 10 by Chris Sokol and Bob Kapur , respectively . Compared to rival World Wrestling Entertainment 's ( WWE ) One Night Stand PPV event on June 1 , both performed equally , as One Night Stand received the same rating from Matt Mackinder .Waldman felt that " TNA put on a strong PPV " that was in " large part to little gimmickery . " Regarding the main event , Waldman gave it a 6 out of 10 , while the World Tag Team Championship match received a 4 out of 10 . He gave the Six Woman Tag Team match a 4 @.@ 5 out of 10 and the A.J. Styles versus Kurt Angle bout a 9 out of 10 . The X Division Championship contest was given a 7 out of 10 .Wade Keller of the Pro Wrestling Torch Newsletter reviewed the show . He felt the main event had " lots of action and drama , " but that having to hang the belt on a hook does not make for a " particularly dramatic end to a match as it seems like someone hanging a plant in the corner " than " beating someone to win a fight . " Keller said the World Tag Team Championship contest was a " solid tag match " with some " elaborate sequences " that were " well executed . " Keller stated that the X Division Championship match was a " very good opener . " Regarding the Styles and Angle bout , Keller commented that it was a " good match , but short of a classic must @-@ see match in part because there were too many chinlocks mid @-@ match from Angle that took the crowd out of it . "James Caldwell , also of the Pro Wrestling Torch Newsletter , posted a review of the show in which he felt the main event was a " slow , plodding match " with an " anticlimactic finish . " Caldwell stated that the Styles versus Angle contest was a " fine spotlight singles match , " but was a " bit underwhelming when the expectations were reasonably high for two of TNA 's best wrestlers in a featured singles match . " He went on to say that he felt it was " missing something " and that it " seemed like the match just never moved out of second gear . Caldwell felt the X Division Championship bout was a " very good opening match , " which " could have been a featured match to sell a few additional PPV buys , but TNA didn 't give the X Division any focus until the final show before the PPV . " Caldwell stated the World Tag Team Championship was " just a slow , plodding tag match . " Regarding the marriage segment during the show , Caldwell said " it was just a bad , bad , bad segment that died slowly and painfully in front of the live audience . " Overall , Caldwell felt that " TNA showcased the X Division in the opening match , " but needed more " athleticism on the show to balance the slow , plodding former WWE heavyweight wrestlers in the main event slots . "