Horrible Bosses received generally positive reviews from critics . On Rotten Tomatoes , the film holds a rating of 68 % , based on 208 reviews , with an average rating of 6 @.@ 2 / 10 . The site 's critical consensus reads , " It 's nasty , uneven , and far from original , but thanks to a smartly assembled cast that makes the most of a solid premise , Horrible Bosses works . " Review aggregate Metacritic gave the film a score of 57 out of 100 , based on 40 critics , indicating " mixed or average reviews " .Roger Ebert gave the film three and a half stars out of four , calling it " well @-@ cast " and commending it for playing to each actor 's strengths . Ebert gave particular praise to Spacey , labeling him " superb " , and Aniston , judging her performance to be a " surprise " and a return to form , stating " she has acute comic timing and hilariously enacts alarming sexual hungers " . Ebert called Horrible Bosses " cheerful and wicked " . Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly reacted positively , calling the film " a bouncy , well @-@ built , delightfully nasty tale of resentment , desperation , and amoral revenge " and complimented the casting of the protagonists and antagonists . The A.V. Club 's Nathan Rabin also praised the cast , stating that the picture " succeeds almost entirely on the chemistry of its three leads , who remain likeable even while resorting to homicide " , adding the " acting more than compensates for the film 's other failings . " Rabin singled out Day 's performance as " a potent illustration of how a brilliant character actor with a spark of madness can elevate a ramshackle lowbrow farce into a solid mainstream comedy through sheer force of charisma . " Edward Douglas of ComingSoon.net credited director Seth Gordon with having assembled " the perfect cast " , claiming " the six leads kill in every scene " , but echoed Nathan Rabin 's sentiments that Day is the " real standout " . Douglas summarized the picture as " dark fun that works better than expected due to a well @-@ developed script , an impeccable cast and a director who knows how to put the two together " . A. O. Scott of The New York Times stated " the timing of the cast ... is impeccable " and appreciated that the script did not attempt " to cut its coarseness with a hypocritical dose of sweetness or respectability " . The review concluded that " in the ways that count and even when it shouldn ’ t , Horrible Bosses works . "USA Today 's Scott Bowles awarded the film three out of four stars , labeling it a " surprising comedy that rivals Bridesmaids as the funniest film of the summer , if not the year . " Bowles added that " the characters are so likable " , giving particular credit to Sudeikis though also adding praise for the performances of Bateman and Day . The dialogue was also lauded by Bowles , which commented that " Seth Gordon has a deft touch with water @-@ cooler talk — even when the water cooler might be spiked with poison . " Leonard Maltin of indieWire considered Day to have had the " breakout role " and offered praise to the performances of the cast , but lamented the lack of screen time for Farrell 's character . Maltin concluded " the movie has just enough raunchiness to identify it as a 2011 comedy , just enough cleverness to admire , and just the right camaraderie among its three male stars , which turns out to be the movie ’ s greatest strength . " Rolling Stone 's Peter Travers gave kudos to the " killer cast " , with specific credit given to Bateman and Day , but was critical of the movie , stating " it wussies out on a sharp premise " and that it is a " hit @-@ and @-@ miss farce that leaves you wishing it was funnier than it is " The Guardian 's Philip French called Horrible Bosses " a lumbering , misogynistic affair " , but admitted " I laughed frequently , probably to the detriment of my self @-@ respect . " Nicholas Barber of The Independent gave a positive review , complimenting Gordon for not allowing the actors ' improvisation to be detrimental to the pacing , but felt the movie was not as " dark " as its premise required , saying " what edginess the film does have comes instead from the inordinate quantity of swearing , plus a smattering of homophobia and misogyny . "Salon 's Andrew O 'Hehir offered a mixed response , characterizing the film as a " lot funnier in theory than in practice , but it won 't ruin your Saturday night " . Salon appreciated the " effortless comic chemistry " between Sudeikis , Bateman and Day and singled out Bateman , Aniston and Spacey for their performances . O 'Hehir was however critical of the perceived homophobia , sexism and racism . The Hollywood Reporter 's Kirk Honeycutt responded negatively , stating the jokes failed to be funny , stating " Seth Gordon shows no flair for turning the absurdities and cartoonish characters in the script ... into anything more than a collection of moments in search of laughs . " Karina Longworth of The Village Voice was critical of the premise , which she felt lacked any legitimate " rage " against the characters ' bosses , stating " ... there 's every sign that , even without these particular emasculators , Dale , Kurt and Nick would still be — for lack of a better word — total pussies . " Longworth felt that the humor was " rarely actually laugh @-@ out @-@ loud funny , and never truly dark or daring " . She particularly criticized the all @-@ white , male protagonists and a plot she deemed racist and filled with " stereotypes " . Justin Chang of Variety praised the performance of the ensemble cast , but considered the plot to be " predictably moronic , vulgar and juvenile " . Chang echoed the sentiments of The Village Voice in lamenting that the film failed to pursue the premise to " darker , more daring territory " and faulted it for falling back on " over @-@ the @-@ top comic exaggeration " .