Churchill has written on American Indian history and culture , and speaks about genocide inflicted on the indigenous people of the Americas by European settlers and what he describes as the repression of native peoples that continues to this day .As of 2007 , according to a report submitted on his behalf , Churchill has written 10 books on his own and co @-@ authored 4 . Some have been reprinted with updates . He has written 51 book chapters , 3 law reviews , and 50 scholarly essays ; 27 of these were refereed . He has edited 4 volumes and co @-@ edited 3 more .According to the University of Colorado investigation , " His academic publications are nearly all works of synthesis and reinterpretation , drawing upon studies by other scholars , not monographs describing new research based on primary sources . " The investigation also noted that " he has decided to publish largely in alternative presses or journals , not in the university presses or mainstream peer @-@ reviewed journals often favored by more conventional academics . " In addition to his academic writing , Churchill has written for several general readership magazines of political opinion .In 1986 , Churchill wrote an essay titled Pacifism as Pathology : Notes on an American Pseudopraxis criticizing pacifist politics within the U.S. left as being hypocritical , de facto racist and ineffectual . In 1998 , Arbeiter Ring Publishing published the essay in a book entitled Pacifism as Pathology : Reflections on the Role of Armed Struggle in North America and listing Ward Churchill as the author . The book included a preface by Ed Mead , a new introduction to the essay by Churchill and a commentary by Mike Ryan . The book sparked much debate in leftist circles and inspired more aggressive tactics within the anti @-@ globalization movement in the following few years .Agents of Repression ( 1988 ) , co @-@ authored by Jim Vander Wall , describes what the authors claim was a secret war against the Black Panther Party and American Indian Movement carried out during the late 1960s and ' 70s by the FBI under the COINTELPRO program . The COINTELPRO Papers ( 1990 ; reissued 2002 ) , also co @-@ authored with Jim Vander Wall , examines a series of original FBI memos that detail the Bureau 's activities against various leftist groups , from the U.S. Communist Party in the 1950s to activists concerned with Central American issues in the 1980s .In Fantasies of the Master Race ( 1992 ) , Churchill examines the portrayal of American Indians and the use of American Indian symbols in popular American culture . He focuses on such phenomena as Tony Hillerman 's mystery novels , the film Dances with Wolves , and the New Age movement , finding examples of cultural imperialism and exploitation . Churchill calls author Carlos Castaneda 's claims of revealing the teachings of a Yaqui Indian shaman , the " greatest hoax since Piltdown Man . "Struggle for the Land ( 1993 ; reissued 2002 ) is a collection of essays in which Churchill chronicles what he describes as the U.S. government 's systematic exploitation of Native lands and the killing or displacement of American Indians . He details Native American efforts in the 19th and 20th centuries to prevent defoliation and industrial practices such as surface mining .Churchill 's Indians Are Us ? ( 1994 ) , a sequel to Fantasies of the Master Race , further explores American Indian issues in popular culture and politics . He examines the movie Black Robe , the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation killings , the prosecution of Leonard Peltier , sports mascots , the Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1990 , and blood quantum laws , calling them tools of genocide . Churchill is particularly outspoken about New Age exploitations of shamanism and American Indian sacred traditions , and the " do @-@ it @-@ yourself Indianism " of certain contemporary authors . John P. LaVelle of the University of New Mexico School of Law published a review of Indians Are Us ? in The American Indian Quarterly . Professor LaVelle , an enrolled member of the Santee Sioux Nation , states that Indians Are Us ? twists historical facts and is hostile toward Indian tribes . It was in this book that Churchill first made the claim that the United States distributed " smallpox @-@ infested blankets " to Indian tribes , a claim which he repeated several times over the next decade . The claim has been criticized as a falsification . Churchill has , however , received support from some scholars .From a Native Son : Selected Essays on Indigenism , 1985 – 1995 ( 1996 ) is a collection of 23 previously published essays on Native American history , culture , and political activism . In his introduction to this volume , Howard Zinn lauds " the emergence of a new generation of Native @-@ American scholars " and describes Churchill 's writing as " powerful , eloquent , unsparing of cant and deception " .Churchill 's A Little Matter of Genocide ( 1997 ) is a survey of ethnic cleansing in the Americas from 1492 to the present . He compares the treatment of North American Indians to historical instances of genocide by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia , Turks against Armenians , and Europeans against the Gypsies , as well as Nazis against the Poles and Jews .In Perversions of Justice ( 2002 ) , Churchill argues that the U.S. ' s legal system was adapted to gain control over Native American people . Tracing the evolution of federal Indian law , Churchill argues that the principles set forth were not only applied to non @-@ Indians in the U.S. , but later adapted for application abroad . He concludes that this demonstrates the development of the U.S. ' s " imperial logic , " which depends on a " corrupt form of legalism " to establish colonial control and empire .Churchill 's controversial essay on 9 / 11 was expanded into a book @-@ length manuscript , published as On the Justice of Roosting Chickens : Reflections on the Consequences of U.S. Imperial Arrogance and Criminality ( 2003 ) by AK Press . The book features two other chapters , one listing US military interventions , another listing what Churchill believes to be US violations of international law . The original essay takes the " roosting chickens " of the title from a 1963 Malcolm X speech , in which Malcolm X linked the assassination of U.S. president John F. Kennedy to the violence which Kennedy perpetuated as " merely a case of chickens coming home to roost . " Churchill 's essays in this book address the worldwide forms of resistance that he posits were and continue to be provoked by U.S. imperialism of the 20th and 21st centuries .In Kill the Indian , Save the Man : The Genocidal Impact of American Indian Residential Schools ( 2004 ) , Churchill traces the history of removing American Indian children from their homes to residential schools ( in Canada ) or Indian boarding schools ( in the USA ) as part of government policies ( 1880s – 1980s ) which he regards as genocidal .