The former @-@ Portuguese colony of East Timor was invaded by Indonesia in 1975 , however , following years of violent struggle the new Indonesian government of President B.J. Habibie subsequently agreed to allow the East Timorese to vote on autonomy in 1999 . The United Nations Mission in East Timor ( UNAMET ) was established to organise and conduct the vote , which was held at the end of August 1999 and resulted with 78 @.@ 5 % of voters deciding in favour of independence . However , following the announcement of the results pro @-@ Indonesian militias supported by elements of the Indonesian military , launched a campaign of violence , looting and arson and many East Timorese were killed , while perhaps more than 500 @,@ 000 were displaced . Unable to control the violence , Indonesia subsequently agreed to the deployment of a multinational peacekeeping force . Australia , which had contributed police to UNAMET , organised and led an international military coalition , known as the International Force for East Timor ( INTERFET ) , a non @-@ UN force operating in accordance with UN resolutions . The total size of the Australian force committed numbered 5 @,@ 500 personnel , and included a significant ground force , supported by air and naval forces , in the largest single deployment of Australian forces since 1945 .Under the overall command of Australian Major General Peter Cosgrove , INTERFET began arriving on 12 September 1999 and was tasked with restoring peace and security , protecting and supporting UNAMET , and facilitating humanitarian assistance operations . With the withdrawal of the Indonesian armed forces , police and government officials from East Timor , UNAMET re @-@ established its headquarters in Dili on 28 September . On 19 October 1999 , Indonesia formally recognised the result of the referendum and shortly thereafter a UN peacekeeping force , the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor ( UNTAET ) was established , becoming fully responsible for the administration of East Timor during its transition to independence . The hand @-@ over of command of military operations from INTERFET to UNTAET was completed on 28 February 2000 . Australia continued to support the UN peacekeeping operation with between 1 @,@ 500 and 2 @,@ 000 personnel , as well as landing craft and Blackhawk helicopters and remained the largest contributor of personnel to the peacekeeping mission . During these operations Australian forces regularly clashed with pro @-@ Indonesian militia and on a number of occasions Indonesian forces as well , especially along the border with West Timor . Significant actions occurred in Suai , Mota 'ain and at Aidabasalala in October 1999 . However , with the security situation stabilised the bulk of the Australian and UN forces were withdrawn by 2005 . Two Australians died from non @-@ battle related causes , while a number were wounded in action .The unexpected deployment to East Timor in 1999 led to significant changes in Australian defence policy and to an enhancement of the ADF 's ability to conduct operations outside Australia . This successful deployment was the first time a large Australian military force had operated outside of Australia since the Vietnam War and revealed shortcomings in the ADF 's ability to mount and sustain such operations . In response , the 2000 Defence White Paper placed a greater emphasis on preparing the ADF for overseas deployments . The Australian government committed to improve the ADF 's capabilities by improving the readiness and equipment of ADF units , expanding the ADF to 57 @,@ 000 full @-@ time personnel and increasing real Defence expenditure by 3 % per year .In May 2006 , 2 @,@ 000 ADF personnel were again deployed to East Timor as part of Operation Astute , following unrest between elements of the Timor Leste Defence Force . Australian forces were involved in a number skirmishes during this time , including a heavy clash with rebels commanded by Alfredo Reinado at Same on 4 March 2007 . However , by early @-@ 2010 the security situation had been stabilised and just 400 Australian personnel remained to train the local security forces as part of a small international force . Following a drawdown , the International Stabilisation Force commenced withdrawing from Timor @-@ Leste in November 2012 , a process which was completed in April 2013 .