There are thousands of ancient structures at Tikal and only a fraction of these have been excavated , after decades of archaeological work . The most prominent surviving buildings include six very large pyramids , labelled Temples I - VI , each of which support a temple structure on their summits . Some of these pyramids are over 60 metres ( 200 feet ) high . They were numbered sequentially during the early survey of the site . It is estimated that each of these major temples could have been built in as little as two years .Temple I ( also known as the Temple of Ah Cacao or Temple of the Great Jaguar ) is a funerary pyramid dedicated to Jasaw Chan K 'awil , who was entombed in the structure in AD 734 , the pyramid was completed around 740 – 750 . The temple rises 47 metres ( 154 ft ) high . The massive roofcomb that topped the temple was originally decorated with a giant sculpture of the enthroned king , although little of this decoration survives . The tomb of the king was discovered by Aubrey Trik of the University of Pennsylvania in 1962 . Among items recovered from the Late Classic tomb were a large collection of inscribed human and animal bone tubes and strips with sophisticated scenes depicting deities and people , finely carved and rubbed with vermilion , as well as jade and shell ornaments and ceramic vessels filled with offerings of food and drink . The shrine at the summit of the pyramid has three chambers , each behind the next , with the doorways spanned by wooden lintels fashioned from multiple beams . The outermost lintel is plain but the two inner lintels were carved , some of the beams were removed in the 19th century and their location is unknown , while others were taken to museums in Europe .Temple II ( also known as the Temple of the Mask ) it was built around AD 700 and stands 38 metres ( 125 ft ) high . Like other major temples at Tikal , the summit shrine had three consecutive chambers with the doorways spanned by wooden lintels , only the middle of which was carved . The temple was dedicated to the wife of Jasaw Chan K 'awil , although no tomb was found . The queen 's portrait was carved into the lintel spanning the doorway of the summit shrine . One of the beams from this lintel is now in the American Museum of Natural History in New York .Temple III ( also known as the Temple of the Jaguar Priest ) was the last of the great pyramids to be built at Tikal . It stood 55 metres ( 180 ft ) tall and contained an elaborately sculpted but damaged roof lintel , possibly showing Dark Sun engaged in a ritual dance around AD 810 . The temple shrine possesses two chambers .Temple IV is the tallest temple @-@ pyramid at Tikal , measuring 70 metres ( 230 ft ) from the plaza floor level to the top of its roof comb . Temple IV marks the reign of Yik ’ in Chan Kawil ( Ruler B , the son of Ruler A or Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I ) and two carved wooden lintels over the doorway that leads into the temple on the pyramid ’ s summit record a long count date ( 9 @.@ 15 @.@ 10 @.@ 0 @.@ 0 ) that corresponds to CE 741 ( Sharer 1994 : 169 ) . Temple IV is the largest pyramid built anywhere in the Maya region in the 8th century , and as it currently stands is the tallest pre @-@ Columbian structure in the Americas although the Pyramid of the Sun at Teotihuacan may originally have been taller , as may have been one of the structures at El Mirador .Temple V stands south of the Central Acropolis and is the mortuary pyramid of an as yet unidentified ruler . The temple stands 57 metres ( 187 ft ) high , making it the second tallest structure at Tikal - only Temple IV is taller . The temple has been dated to about AD 700 , in the Late Classic period , via radiocarbon analysis and the dating of ceramics associated with the structure places its construction during the reign of Nun Bak Chak in the second half of the 7th century .Temple VI is also known as the Temple of the Inscriptions and was dedicated in AD 766 . It is notable for its 12 @-@ metre ( 39 ft ) high roof @-@ comb . Panels of hieroglyphs cover the back and sides of the roof @-@ comb . The temple faces onto a plaza to the west and its front is unrestored .Temple 33 was a funerary pyramid erected over the tomb of Siyaj Chan K 'awiil I ( known as Burial 48 ) in the North Acropolis . It started life in the Early Classic as a wide basal platform decorated with large stucco masks that flanked the stairway . Later in the Early Classic a new superstructure was added , with its own masks and decorated panels . During the Hiatus a third stage was built over the earlier constructions , the stairway was demolished and another royal burial , of an unidentified ruler , was set into the structure ( Burial 23 ) . While the new pyramid was being built another high ranking tomb ( Burial 24 ) was inserted into the rubble core of the building . The pyramid was then completed , standing 33 metres ( 108 ft ) tall . The final version of Temple 33 was completely dismantled by archaeologists in 1965 in order to arrive at the earlier stages of construction .Structure 34 is a pyramid in the North Acropolis that was built by Siyaj Chan K 'awiil II over the tomb of his father , Yax Nuun Ayiin I. The pyramid was topped by a three chambered shrine , the rooms situated one behind the other .Structure 5D @-@ 43 is an unusual radial temple in the East Plaza , built over a pre @-@ existing twin pyramid complex . It is built into the end of the East Plaza Ballcourt and possessed four entry doorways and three stairways , the fourth ( south ) side was too close to the Central Acropolis for a stairway on that side . The building has a talud @-@ tablero platform profile , modified from the original style found at Teotihuacan . In fact , it has been suggested that the style of the building has closer affinities with El Tajin and Xochicalco than with Teotihuacan itself . The vertical tablero panels are set between sloping talud panels and are decorated with paired disc symbols . Large flower symbols are set into the sloping talud panels , related to the Venus and star symbols used at Teotihuacan . The roof of the structure was decorated with friezes although only fragments now remain , showing a monstrous face , perhaps that of a jaguar , with another head emerging from the mouth . The second head possesses a bifurcated tongue but is probably not that of a snake . The temple , and its associated ballcourt , probably date to the reign of Nuun Ujol Chaak or that of his son Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I , in the later part of the 7th century .Structure 5C @-@ 49 possesses a clear Teotihuacan @-@ linked architectural style ; it has balustrades , an architectural feature that is very rare in the Maya region , and a talud @-@ tablero façade ; it dates to the 4th century AD . It is located near to the Lost World pyramid .Structure 5C @-@ 53 is a small Teotihuacan @-@ style platform that dates to about AD 600 . It had stairways on all four sides and did not possess a superstructure .The Lost World Pyramid ( Structure 5C @-@ 54 ) is the largest structure in the Mundo Perdido complex . It lies in the southwest portion of Tikal ’ s central core , south of Temple III and west of Temple V. It was decorated with stucco masks of the sun god and dates to the Late Preclassic ; this pyramid is part of an enclosed complex of structures that remained intact and un @-@ impacted by later building activity at Tikal . By the end of the Late Preclassic this pyramid was one of the largest structures in the Maya region . It attained its final form during the reign of Chak Tok Ich 'aak in the 4th century AD , in the Early Classic , standing more than 30 metres ( 98 ft ) high with stairways on all four sides and a flat top that possibly supported a superstructure built from perishable materials . Although the plaza later suffered significant alteration , the organization of a group of temples on the east side of this complex adheres to the layout that defines the so @-@ called E @-@ Groups , identified as solar observatories .Structure 5D @-@ 96 is the central temple on the east side of the Plaza of the Seven Temples . It has been restored and its rear outer wall is decorated with skull @-@ and @-@ crossbones motifs .Group 6C @-@ 16 is an elite residential complex that has been thoroughly excavated . It lies a few hundred metres south of the Lost World Complex and the excavations have revealed elaborate stucco masks , ballplayer murals , relief sculptures and buildings with Teotihuacan characteristics .The Great Plaza Ballcourt is a small ballcourt that lies between Temple I and the Central Acropolis .The Bat Palace is also known as the Palace of Windows and lies to the west of Temple III . It has two storeys , with a double range of chambers on the lower storey and a single range in the upper storey , which has been restored . The palace has ancient graffiti and possesses low windows .Complex N lies to the west of the Bat Palace and Temple III . The complex dates to AD 711 .