British army forces in North America were primarily tied up with the Siege of Boston in 1775 . Seeking bases of operations where they had more control , the British planned an expedition to the southern colonies . Major General Henry Clinton , then in Boston , was to travel to Cape Fear , North Carolina , where he would join with largely Scottish Loyalists raised in the North Carolina backcountry , and a force of 2 @,@ 000 men from Ireland under the command of Major General Charles Cornwallis .The plan was beset by difficulties from the start . The Irish expedition , originally supposed to depart at the beginning of December 1775 , was delayed by logistical difficulties , and its 2 @,@ 500 troops did not depart until February 13 , 1776 , escorted by 11 warships under the command of Admiral Sir Peter Parker . Clinton left Boston on January 20 with two companies of light infantry , and first stopped at New York City to confer with William Tryon , New York 's royal governor . Major General Charles Lee , sent by Major General George Washington to see to the defense of New York , coincidentally arrived there the same day as Clinton . New York was at that time extremely tense ; Patriot forces were beginning to disarm and evict Loyalists , and the British fleet anchored there was having difficulty acquiring provisions . Despite this , Clinton made no secret that his final target was in the south . Lee observed that this was " certainly a droll way of proceeding ; to communicate his full plan to the enemy is too novel to be credited . " This was not even the first notice of the expedition to the colonists ; a letter intercepted in December had already provided intelligence that the British were planning to go to the South .Clinton arrived at Cape Fear on March 12 , expecting to find the European convoy already there . He met with the royal governors of North and South Carolina , Josiah Martin and William Campbell , and learned that the recruited Scottish Loyalists had been defeated at Moore 's Creek Bridge two weeks earlier . Clinton also received pleas for assistance from the royal governor of Georgia , James Wright , who had been arrested , and then escaped to a navy ship .Parker 's fleet had an extremely difficult crossing . Battered by storms and high seas , the first ships of the fleet did not arrive at Cape Fear until April 18 , and Cornwallis did not arrive until May 3 . After several weeks there , in which the British troops raided Patriot properties , Clinton , Cornwallis and Parker concluded that Cape Fear was not a suitable base for further operations . Parker had sent out some ships on scouting expeditions up and down the coast , and reports on the partially finished condition of the Charleston defenses were sufficiently promising that the decision was made to go there .