Shikamaru first major appearance in the series is during the Chunin Exams , bi @-@ yearly exams for ninja who wish to advance in rank . He is part of Team 10 alongside Choji Akimichi and Ino Yamanaka . He is a highly unenthusiastic person , and he attempts to go through life with minimum effort . Contrary to his lazy tendencies , Shikamaru is extremely intelligent ; his teacher , Asuma Sarutobi , determined that Shikamaru 's IQ was over 200 . Shikamaru 's abilities are based on the Shadow Imitation Technique ( 影真似の術 , Kagemane no Jutsu , English TV : " Shadow Possession Jutsu " ) , the signature technique of his clan , with which he merges his shadow with an opponent 's shadow , making them immobilized and forced to mimic Shikamaru 's movements . As the series progresses , Shikamaru becomes able to manipulate his shadow in new ways . By Part II of the series , Shikamaru is capable of utilizing multiple shadow @-@ based techniques at once and can lift his shadow from the ground in order to interact with physical objects ; for instance , he can pierce enemies with the shadow tendrils or use them to throw weapons .Shikamaru approaches the exams with a sense of apathy ; when he battles the Sunagakure ninja Temari , he defeats her but forfeits his match to her , due to his chakra being low . Despite this loss , he is the only ninja among his peers to be promoted to the rank of Chunin , as the overseers of the exams were impressed by the insight and intelligence he demonstrated against Temari . As a Chunin , Shikamaru is appointed the leader of a team to prevent Sasuke Uchiha from defecting to the village of Otogakure . Although Shikamaru 's team manages to defeat the Otogakure ninja barring their way , Sasuke manages to escape .In Part II of the series , Shikamaru is assigned the task of locating two members of the criminal organization Akatsuki . While his team manages to find their targets , the immortal Akatsuki member Hidan kills Asuma Sarutobi during the course of the battle despite Shikamaru 's best efforts . After Asuma 's funeral , Shikamaru sets out with the surviving members of Team 10 to avenge their mentor with the aid of Kakashi Hatake . As the other deal with Hidan 's partner Kakuzu , Shikamaru avenges Asuma by defeating Hidan and making sure the Akatsuki member 's body is never found . Following the fight , Shikamaru vows to protect Kurenai Yuhi and Asuma 's newborn daughter . He is later assigned to the Fourth Division alongside Temari and Chōji . He is named a proxy general under Gaara . In the series epilogue , stating his personal desire during the series of final battles , Shikamaru becomes advisor to the Seventh Hokage Naruto after marrying Temari and gaining a son in Shikadai Nara .