The oldest parts of Capel Lligwy date from the first half of the 12th century . This was a time when many churches on Anglesey in north @-@ west Wales were first built in stone following the end of Viking raids and attempts by the Normans to gain control of the island . The reason for its construction , and the saint to whom it was dedicated , are unknown . Geraint Jones , author of a 2006 guide to the churches of Anglesey , suggests that it may originally have been a memorial chapel , or connected to a royal court nearby . Yates and Longley , authors of a 2001 guide to ancient Anglesey monuments , note that it was built in the large parish of Penrhos Lligwy and was perhaps intended to serving the expanding population in medieval times . Despite this , it seems to have remained as a chapel of ease rather than become a parish church in its own right . The chapel is sometimes referred to as " Hen Gapel Lligwy " ( " hen " being the Welsh word for " old " and " capel " meaning " chapel " ) .The walls were partially rebuilt in the 14th century , and the upper parts of the walls date from this time . A chapel was added to the south side of the building in the 16th century . A vault under the south chapel was used to bury members of a local family , the Pierce Lloyds . In 1999 , the vault was used to record some " atmospheres " for the album " You Have Just Been Poisoned By The Serpents " by The Serpents , a collective of Welsh musicians including members of Echo and the Bunnymen , Super Furry Animals and Ectogram that was described by one journalist as " possibly the strangest pop group of all time " .For a time , Capel Lligwy was used as a private place of worship for Lligwy House , a " venerable mansion " once owned by the Lloyd family which came into the possession of William Irby , 1st Baron Boston , in the 18th century . After the early part of the 18th century , however , the chapel became unused and began to fall into disrepair . The walls remain to gable level , with some traces of render on the inside , but the roof has gone .Capel Lligwy is in the Anglesey countryside near Llanallgo ; the parish church of St Gallgo , Llanallgo is about 0 @.@ 78 miles ( 1 @.@ 26 km ) away . Part of the churchyard wall remains , showing that it was originally within a mainly circular enclosure , as often found with early churches . It is cared for by Cadw , the Welsh Assembly Government body responsible for the built heritage of Wales , and is open to the public .