On February 28 , 1985 , Congressman James H. Weaver gave a speech in the United States House of Representatives in which he asserted that the Rajneeshees were involved in the bioterror attack in Oregon . At a series of press conferences in September 1985 , Rajneesh accused several of his recently departed lieutenants of involvement in this and other crimes , including the poisoning of Mike Sullivan , a Jefferson County district attorney , and asked state and federal authorities to investigate his allegations . The assassination plot was uncovered by federal law enforcement as a result of the ensuing investigation into activities at Rajneeshpuram . Turner was never physically harmed , and had retired by 1995 .The Oregonian was informed in October 1985 by federal law enforcement officials that Leslie L. Zaitz , an investigative journalist who had written a 20 @-@ part series on the Rajneesh movement in Oregon , was on a " hit list " which also included Turner and Oregon Attorney General David Frohnmayer . Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Weaver prosecuted the case ; the charges were first detailed at an October 1985 bond hearing in North Carolina after Rajneesh and his followers were arrested at an airport in Charlotte . Weaver said in court that followers of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh had plotted to assassinate Turner and Frohnmayer . He said these allegations were reasons why releasing Rajneesh and his followers from jail would be " a clear and present danger to public officials " . The guns purchased by the Rajneesh followers for the assassination plot had reportedly been dumped in a lake at Rancho Rajneesh ; the lake was searched by U.S. Navy divers . Scuba divers searched the lake for two days but did not find the guns .Joseph Greene , a U.S. immigration agent , testified in court that FBI agents had learned of the assassination plot from a member of the organization who was in a witness protection program . Greene said that members involved in the assassination plot included Ma Anand Sheela , Dianne Yvonne Onang , and Alma Peralta . The assassination plot was investigated by the FBI and the Oregon State Police . Informants told law enforcement that Ma Anand Sheela hoped Turner 's death would prevent an Immigration and Naturalization Service investigation which she thought could lead to Rajneesh 's arrest and deportation from the United States . Weaver stated " These attempts to assassinate public officials were because they were presenting an immigration case that might result in imprisonment " of Rajneesh . " There were not simply plans , but at least one ( assassination ) attempt , " said Weaver at the hearing .A grand jury investigation led by Turner brought charges of " widespread immigration fraud " against members of Rajneeshpuram . Wiretapping crimes were discovered after Ma Anand Sheela had fled the commune in September 1985 . In December 1985 , 21 followers of Rajneesh were indicted on wiretapping charges .