During a concert on May 24 , 2010 , in the Prague club , Abaton , Blythe was involved in an incident that resulted in the death of Daniel Nosek , a 19 @-@ year @-@ old attending fan . According to eyewitness statements cited by the Czech online daily newspaper aktuálně.cz following Blythe 's arrest , Blythe was chanting " Come on up " between songs , which , the newspaper stated , may have been intended to invite applause from the audience and not a direct invitation to fans . The newspaper went on to report that the fan tried to climb onstage and was thrown by the singer from the stage , falling backwards directly on his head . According to the same paper , Nosek was not under the influence of drugs or alcohol , suffered serious brain trauma , fell into a coma , and died weeks later from his injuries .A report about the concert at issue released on May 26 , 2010 by topzine.cz stated that " one of the things that was unexpected was the behavior of the singer Randall Blythe , who on a few occasions struck some fans in a relatively brutal way off the stage . " The article also contains pictures , one of them showing Blythe holding a fan down on the ground . Meanwhile , another report released two days after the concert by metalopolis.net alleged that " Randy in a totally uncompromising way took down an impertinent fan , who has climbed the podium several times . The front @-@ man clearly showed that it is his territory , he struck the intruder down , punched him a couple of times and sent him through the air off the podium , without even stopping singing ( ! ) " On May 28 , 2010 , the report by marastmusic.com stated that " some broken head was a testimony to the fact that the band does not like anybody on the stage " , while abysszine.com stated that " the only negative thing about the concert was , to say it mildly , disputable approach of the band towards the stage @-@ divers ... when somebody tried to climb the stage , he was brutally swept down . "Following Blythe 's arrest , Tomáš Fiala , a promoter of the concert , said that there was no fight between the fan and Blythe , and that " it was an unfortunate incident which happened during the concert when someone climbed onto the stage where he was not supposed to be . " According to the Lamb of God publicist Adrenaline PR , " [ the ] incident deals with a fan that three times during the concert jumped the barricade and rushed Randy during the performance . It is alleged that the third time , security was not able to reach him and that Randy pushed him back into the audience where supposedly he fell and hit his head . " However , it was revealed during the trial that it was a different fan who previously got into contact with Blythe than Nosek . Guitarist Willie Adler said , " I can 't recall that particular show , let alone a fan being beaten on the stage . I think I would 've noticed something like that considering the Dime thing . "According to Blythe 's attorney Martin Radvan , the police launched an investigation following the death of Nosek , about a month after the concert and following a coma . After interviewing several eyewitnesses from the concert , the police asked the United States Department of Justice to take part in the investigation ; however , they refused to cooperate and , moreover , did not notify anyone from Lamb of God or its management .