The idea for assembling a team of Māori footballers to tour Britain was conceived by Joseph Warbrick , a rugby player who had toured with the first New Zealand national team in 1884 . He initially proposed a team of Māori or part @-@ Māori to play the touring British side in 1888 ; this developed into a venture to have a Māori team tour Britain if a preliminary tour of New Zealand were successful . Hearing of Warbrick 's plans , civil servant Thomas Eyton contacted him to offer help managing the tour , which Warbrick accepted . When James Scott , a publican , subsequently joined the partnership , the three men decided that Warbrick would be the team 's captain , Scott its manager and Eyton its promoter .Warbrick started assembling a team for the tour in early 1888 . He had difficulties assembling a squad due to player availability , and failed to secure the talented Jack Taiaroa due to his university commitments . Some Māori players who initially agreed to play later pulled out when the eligibility criteria were relaxed to allow squad members who were only part @-@ Māori . Twenty Māori or part @-@ Māori players joined the squad ; five Pākehā ( white New Zealand ) players were added after the team lost to Auckland . Due to the inclusion of these Pākehā players the team was renamed from the " New Zealand Maori " to the " New Zealand Native Football Representatives " . The final squad comprised 26 players ( including Warbrick ) ; of these at least five were full @-@ blooded Māori , while fourteen had a Māori mother and a Pākehā father . The parentage of some of the players is unknown .The team toured New Zealand before departing overseas , playing against Hawke 's Bay , Auckland , Nelson , Wellington , Canterbury , South Canterbury , and Otago . The first game was contested against Hawke 's Bay in Napier on 23 June 1888 . They played nine games in their preliminary tour of New Zealand , and won seven of them . Their last New Zealand match before departure , against Otago played in Dunedin on 31 July 1888 , was won by one try to nil .The team sailed for Australia from Dunedin , leaving on 1 August 1888 . In Melbourne , Scott recruited Jack Lawlor to train the players in Victorian Rules football in Britain as preparation for possible Victorian Rules matches on their return to Australia . The team played two rugby matches against the Melbourne Rugby Union team , winning the first and drawing the second , before continuing to Britain via Suez . They arrived in London on 27 September 1888 .