Australia entered the Second World War on 3 September 1939 . At the time of the declaration of war against Germany the Australian military was small and unready for war . Recruiting for a Second Australian Imperial Force ( 2nd AIF ) began in mid @-@ September . While there was no rush of volunteers like the First World War , a high proportion of Australian men of military age had enlisted by mid @-@ 1940 . Four infantry divisions were formed during 1939 and 1940 , three of which were dispatched to the Middle East . The RAAF 's resources were initially mainly devoted to training airmen for service with the Commonwealth air forces through the Empire Air Training Scheme ( EATS ) , through which almost 28 @,@ 000 Australians were trained during the war .The Australian military 's first major engagements of the war were against Italian forces in the Mediterranean and North Africa . During 1940 the light cruiser HMAS Sydney and five elderly destroyers ( dubbed the " Scrap Iron Flotilla " by Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels — a title proudly accepted by the ships ) took part in a series of operations as part of the British Mediterranean Fleet , and sank several Italian warships . The Army first saw action in January 1941 , when the 6th Division formed part of the Commonwealth forces during Operation Compass . The division assaulted and captured Bardia on 5 January and Tobruk on 22 January , with tens of thousands of Italian troops surrendering at both towns . The 6th Division took part in the pursuit of the Italian Army and captured Benghazi on 4 February . In late February it was withdrawn for service in Greece , and was replaced by the 9th Division .The Australian forces in the Mediterranean endured a number of campaigns during 1941 . During April , the 6th Division , other elements of I Corps and several Australian warships formed part of the Allied force which unsuccessfully attempted to defend Greece from German invasion during the Battle of Greece . At the end of this campaign , the 6th Division was evacuated to Egypt and Crete . The force at Crete subsequently fought in the Battle of Crete during May , which also ended in defeat for the Allies . Over 5 @,@ 000 Australians were captured in these campaigns , and the 6th Division required a long period of rebuilding before it was again ready for combat . The Germans and Italians also went on the offensive in North Africa at the end of March and drove the Commonwealth force there back to near the border with Egypt . The 9th Division and a brigade of the 7th Division were besieged at Tobruk ; successfully defending the key port town until they were replaced by British units in October . During June , the main body of the 7th Division , a brigade of the 6th Division and the I Corps headquarters took part in the Syria @-@ Lebanon Campaign against the Vichy French . Resistance was stronger than expected ; Australians were involved in most of the fighting and sustained most of the casualties before the French capitulated in early July .The majority of Australian units in the Mediterranean returned to Australia in early 1942 , after the outbreak of the Pacific War . The 9th Division was the largest unit to remain in the Middle East , and played a key role in the First Battle of El Alamein during June and the Second Battle of El Alamein in October . The division returned to Australia in early 1943 , but several RAAF squadrons and RAN warships took part in the subsequent Tunisia Campaign and the Italian Campaign from 1943 until the end of the war .The RAAF 's role in the strategic air offensive in Europe formed Australia 's main contribution to the defeat of Germany . Approximately 13 @,@ 000 Australian airmen served in dozens of British and five Australian squadrons in RAF Bomber Command between 1940 and the end of the war . Australians took part in all of Bomber Command 's major offensives and suffered heavy losses during raids on German cities and targets in France . Australian aircrew in Bomber Command had one of the highest casualty rates of any part of the Australian military during the Second World War and sustained almost 20 percent of all Australian deaths in combat ; 3 @,@ 486 were killed and hundreds more were taken prisoner . Australian airmen in light bomber and fighter squadrons also participated in the liberation of Western Europe during 1944 and 1945 and two RAAF maritime patrol squadrons served in the Battle of the Atlantic .