The Boxer Rebellion in China began in 1900 , and a number of western nations — including many European powers , the United States , and Japan — soon sent forces as part of the China Field Force to protect their interests . In June , the British government sought permission from the Australian colonies to dispatch ships from the Australian Squadron to China . The colonies also offered to assist further , but as most of their troops were still engaged in South Africa , they had to rely on naval forces for manpower . The force dispatched was a modest one , with Britain accepting 200 men from Victoria , 260 from New South Wales and the South Australian ship HMCS Protector , under the command of Captain William Creswell . Most of these forces were made up of naval brigade reservists , who had been trained in both ship handling and soldiering to fulfil their coastal defence role . Amongst the naval contingent from New South Wales were 200 naval officers and sailors and 50 permanent soldiers headquartered at Victoria Barracks , Sydney who originally enlisted for the Second Boer War . The soldiers were keen to go to China but refused to be enlisted as sailors , while the New South Wales Naval Brigade objected to having soldiers in their ranks . The Army and Navy compromised and titled the contingent the NSW Marine Light Infantry .The contingents from New South Wales and Victoria sailed for China on 8 August 1900 . Arriving in Tientsin , the Australians provided 300 men to an 8 @,@ 000 @-@ strong multinational force tasked with capturing the Chinese forts at Pei Tang , which dominated a key railway . They arrived too late to take part in the battle , but were involved in the attack on the fortress at Pao @-@ ting Fu , where the Chinese government was believed to have found asylum after Peking was captured by western forces . The Victorians joined a force of 7 @,@ 500 men on a ten @-@ day march to the fort , once again only to find that it had already surrendered . The Victorians then garrisoned Tientsin and the New South Wales contingent undertook garrison duties in Peking . HMCS Protector was mostly used for survey , transport , and courier duties in the Gulf of Chihli , before departing in November . The naval brigades remained during the winter , unhappily performing policing and guard duties , as well as working as railwaymen and fire @-@ fighters . They left China in March 1901 , having played only a minor role in a few offensives and punitive expeditions and in the restoration of civil order . Six Australians died from sickness and injury , but none were killed as a result of enemy action .