The video begins with an aerial shot of a block in Los Angeles , and clips of radio broadcasts are heard with disc jockeys stating that U2 is planning on performing a concert downtown and expecting crowds of 30 @,@ 000 people . Police show up to the set and inform the band 's crew of the security issue that the film shoot is causing , due to the large number of people who are coming to watch the performance . Two minutes into the video , U2 are seen on the roof of a liquor store at the corner of 7th Ave. and S. Main St. , and perform " Where the Streets Have No Name " to a large crowd of people standing in the streets surrounding the building . Towards the end of the song , the police tell the crew that the performance is about to be shut down , and eventually police walk onto the roof while the crowd are booing the police .The video for " Where the Streets Have No Name " was directed by Meiert Avis and produced by Michael Hamlyn and Ben Dossett . The band attracted over 1 @,@ 000 people during the video 's filming , which took place on the rooftop of a liquor store in Downtown Los Angeles on 27 March 1987 . The band 's performance on a rooftop in a public place was a reference to The Beatles ' final concert , as depicted in the film Let It Be .During the shoot U2 played an eight @-@ song set , which included four performances of " Where the Streets Have No Name " . Prior to filming , a week was spent reinforcing the roof of the liquor store to ensure it would not collapse if it were to be intruded by a group of fans . A backup generator was put on the roof so the shooting could continue in the event that the authorities shut off the power on the primary generator , which happened during filming .The depiction of the police attempting to shut down the video shoot due to safety concerns actually happened during filming , just as seen in the video . Hamlyn was almost arrested following a confrontation with the police . According to Avis , the events depicted in the video show what actually happened that day " almost in real time " , and that " getting busted was an integral part of the plan . " Band manager Paul McGuinness revealed in 2007 that much of the confrontation with the police was exaggerated ; the group were hoping to get shut down by the authorities in order to dramatize the music video , but the police continually gave them extensions for shooting the video . In the background of the video is a sign for The Million Dollar Hotel , which was rebuilt to create some interest , in case no one showed up at the film shoot . Although the video is of a live performance , the audio used is from the studio @-@ recorded version of the song . The video won the Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video at the 1989 Grammy Awards .