Asahi , meaning " rising sun " , a poetic name for Japan from a stanza of waka poetry , was laid down on 1 August 1898 in Clydebank , Scotland , by the Clydebank Engineering & Shipbuilding Co. and completed by John Brown & Company , which purchased the firm before Asahi was completed . She was launched on 13 March 1899 and completed on 31 July 1900 . Her completion was delayed by about three months when her bottom plating required repairs after running aground off Southsea following sea trials . The ship departed England , after repairs in Portsmouth , on the day of her completion , and arrived at Yokosuka , Japan , on 23 October 1900 . Asahi became flagship of the Standing Fleet on 22 May 1901 and was assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet when the Combined Fleet was re @-@ formed on 28 December 1903 .At the start of the Russo @-@ Japanese War , Asahi , commanded by Captain Hikohachi Yamada , was assigned to the 1st Division of the 1st Fleet . She participated in the Battle of Port Arthur on 9 February 1904 , when Vice Admiral Tōgō Heihachirō led the 1st Fleet in an attack on the Russian ships of the Pacific Squadron anchored just outside Port Arthur . Tōgō had expected the surprise night attack by his destroyers to be much more successful than it was , anticipating that the Russians would be badly disorganized and weakened , but they had recovered from their surprise and were ready for his attack . The Japanese ships were spotted by the protected cruiser Boyarin , which was patrolling offshore and alerted the Russian defences . Tōgō chose to attack the Russian coastal defences with his main armament and engage the ships with his secondary guns . Splitting his fire proved to be a poor decision as the Japanese eight @-@ inch ( 203 mm ) and six @-@ inch guns inflicted little damage on the Russian ships , which concentrated all their fire on the Japanese ships with some effect . Although many ships on both sides were hit , Russian casualties numbered only 17 , while the Japanese suffered 60 killed and wounded before Tōgō disengaged . Asahi was not hit during the engagement .The ship participated in the action of 13 April , when Tōgō successfully lured out a portion of the Pacific Squadron , including Vice Admiral Stepan Makarov 's flagship , the battleship Petropavlovsk . When Makarov spotted the five battleships of the 1st Division , he turned back for Port Arthur and Petropavlovsk struck a minefield laid by the Japanese the previous night . The Russian battleship sank in less than two minutes after one of her magazines exploded , and Makarov was one of the 677 killed . Emboldened by his success , Tōgō resumed long @-@ range bombardment missions , prompting the Russians to lay more minefields , which sank two Japanese battleships the following month .During the Battle of the Yellow Sea on 10 August , Asahi , now commanded by Captain Tsunaakira Nomoto , was second in line of the column of Japanese battleships , behind Mikasa , and was one of the primary targets of the Russian ships . She was only hit by a single 12 @-@ inch shell that wounded two crewmen . Both guns in her aft 12 @-@ inch gun turret , however , were disabled by shells that detonated prematurely in their barrels . In turn she concentrated most of her fire upon the battleships Poltava and Tsesarevich although both ships were only lightly damaged by the Japanese shells , which generally failed to penetrate any armour and detonated on impact . The ship made the critical hits of the battle , however , when two of her 12 @-@ inch shells struck the bridge of Tsesarevich , killing the Russian squadron commander , Vice Admiral Wilgelm Vitgeft , two of his staff officers and the ship 's quartermaster . The ship 's wheel was jammed to port by wreckage and then slowed to a halt which threw the rest of the Russian ships into total confusion . The second @-@ in @-@ command , Rear Admiral Prince Pavel Ukhtomsky , eventually gained control of the remainder of the squadron and headed back to Port Arthur . Slightly more than two months later , on 26 October , Asahi struck a mine off Port Arthur while on blockade duty . Severely damaged , she was under repair at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from November 1904 to April 1905 . Russian naval forces in the Far East had been destroyed or neutralized by this time and the Russians were forced to transfer ships from the Baltic Fleet that did not arrive until May .