Following the capture of Pearl Ridge in December 1944 , the Australian 7th Brigade had been moved south and allocated to the drive towards Buin . In late March and early April 1945 , they had fought the Battle of Slater 's Knoll after which a brief lull followed as the Australians paused to shorten their supply lines . Meanwhile , the survivors of the Japanese force , heavily demoralised by their defeat , withdrew towards the Hongorai River . The Australian 3rd Division was then ordered to resume its advance south , being tasked with capturing the Hari River , while the Hongorai was also included as an " intermediate objective " . Japanese strength in the southern sector was estimated by the Australians at about 10 @,@ 500 men , of which 2 @,@ 300 were believed to be directly opposing the 3rd Division . The 15th Brigade was considered to be the most experienced of the Australian units on Bougainville at the time and was moved up to relieve the 7th Brigade , which was in need of rest .Under the command of Brigadier Heathcote Hammer the 15th Brigade consisted of three infantry battalions as well as two troops of tanks from the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , engineers from the 15th Field Company , a battery of 155 @-@ mm guns from ' U ' Heavy Battery , field artillery from the 2nd Field Regiment , and a number of smaller support units . The 58th / 59th Infantry Battalion took over responsibility for Slater 's Knoll replacing the 25th Infantry Battalion while the 24th Infantry Battalion took up a position across the Buin Road . The brigade 's third battalion — the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion — did not join them until the beginning of May , and so the 7th Brigade 's 9th Infantry Battalion continued patrolling operations north of the Huio River , in the Rumiki area , until the 57th / 60th could dispatch elements to relieve them . Further inland , the 2 / 8th Commando Squadron advanced in a wide arc to the south @-@ east , defending the brigade 's left , or eastern , flank .The Japanese forces opposing the Australians belonged to the 6th Division , under the command of Lieutenant General Tsutomu Akinaga . Akinaga had been ordered to delay the Australian advance between the Hongorai and the Hari for as long as possible , and with these orders in mind he had installed a number of strong points along the Australian 's expected line of advance . The division 's infantry had suffered heavily in the previous battle around Slater 's Knoll and as a consequence , several units had to be reorganized or amalgamated . The front line positions were assigned to the 6th Field Artillery Regiment , while the 13th Infantry Regiment was to hold five strongpoints to their rear along and astride the Buin Road , designated ' A ' through to ' E ' . The 6th Field and 4th Field Heavy Artillery Regiments both held strongpoints further back , designated ' F ' and ' G ' . The 23rd Infantry Regiment was placed in the rear , where it was being reconstituted following losses suffered during the attack on Slater 's Knoll .