The Cherokee of Indian Territory ( now Oklahoma ) were upset to have Fort Wayne in their proximity . After some delay , the US Army decided to abandon Fort Wayne and move its soldiers to a new fort to be built between Fort Leavenworth and the site . The Army both wanted to placate the Cherokee ( who were supervised by the Department of Defense ) and provide more defense for white settlers and other Indians against the Osage , who had been conducting frequent raids in the area . On April 1 , 1842 , some soldiers of Fort Wayne left their fort and on April 22 arrived where Fort Scott would be built , in the Osage Cuestas section of modern @-@ day Kansas . After haggling with the Cherokees to acquire the land , the rest of Fort Wayne 's garrison left the fort on May 26 and arrived at the Fort Scott site on May 30 .Unlike most forts for military use , the fort did not have defensive walls or structures when first built ; the wide @-@ open area and the available artillery made an enclosed fort unnecessary . The soldiers concentrated on building structures for lodging the men , animals , and equipment . These buildings were on the edges of a 350 @-@ foot ( 110 m ) parade ground .The post quartermaster , Captain Thomas Swords , was in charge of building Fort Scott 's structures , and had to deal with the problems of construction on the Kansas prairie , which had few trees . He had only two bricklayers and three carpenters to rely on , as there were few civilians and most of the soldiers had other duties to perform . Wood was available , but the mill was built 1 @.@ 5 miles ( 2 @.@ 4 km ) away , making transport time consuming . Swords found his efforts plagued by lack of wood , skilled labor and working equipment . Freak accidents destroyed much of the wood intended for the fort 's construction . As a result , only one duplex of the five planned officers quarters ( four duplexes and post commandant 's house ) was built by 1844 , and the intended enlisted barracks were not completed . In his 1844 inspection of the fort , Colonel George Croghan reported that , in comparison to other frontier forts , he considered Fort Scott " above average " .Due to the rising tensions that escalated in the Mexican @-@ American War , the US Army redeployed troops to the Southwest . With Fort Scott still uncompleted , officials decided on April 25 , 1850 , that no more construction would be done there , after eight years and $ 35 @,@ 000 . By the time it was finished , it was obsolete ; three years later , it was abandoned by the military in favor of the more western Fort Riley .For the average soldier , life at the fort was " monotonous " . Until the permanent structures were built , soldiers had to live in tents , which lacked comfort . Aside from a few whiskey peddlers and prostitutes , few civilians lived at the fort . Officers had brought their personal slaves with them , including Captain Swords . Five miles East in Missouri was a grog shop that supplied soldiers , and quite a few courts @-@ martial followed soldiers ' going AWOL at the shop . The desertion rate from the fort ranged from 12 % -16 % , due to boredom , irregular pay , and hatred for military life . As no combat took place near the fort , it seemed more of a frontier village than a military base . Hunting was a popular pastime ; according to Captain Swords , " wolf chasing and duck hunting " was the only way one officer could tolerate the place .