In 2003 , Churchill stated , " I am myself of Muscogee and Creek descent on my father 's side , Cherokee on my mother 's , and am an enrolled member of the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians . " In 1992 , Churchill wrote elsewhere that he is one @-@ eighth Creek and one @-@ sixteenth Cherokee . In 1993 , Churchill told the Colorado Daily that " he was one @-@ sixteenth Creek and Cherokee . " Churchill told the Denver Post in February 2005 that he is three @-@ sixteenths Cherokee .In a statement dated May 9 , 2005 , and posted on its website , the United Keetoowah Band initially said ," The United Keetoowah Band would like to make it clear that Mr. Churchill IS NOT a member of the Keetoowah Band and was only given an honorary ' associate membership ' in the early 1990s because he could not prove any Cherokee ancestry . " The tribe said that all of Churchill 's " past , present and future claims or assertions of Keetoowah ' enrollment , ' written or spoken , including but not limited to ; biographies , curriculum vitae , lectures , applications for employment , or any other reference not listed herein , are deemed fraudulent by the United Keetoowah Band . "Two days later , the United Keetoowah Band replaced its statement and acknowledged Churchill 's " alleged ancestry " of being Cherokee :" Because Mr. Churchill had genealogical information regarding his alleged ancestry , and his willingness to assist the UKB in promoting the tribe and its causes , he was awarded an ' Associate Membership ' as an honor , " the tribe 's website now said . " However , Mr. Churchill may possess eligibility status for Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma , since he claims 1 / 16 Cherokee . "The tribe 's spokesperson , Lisa Stopp , stated the tribe enrolls only members with certified one @-@ quarter American Indian blood . The website statement further clarified that Churchill " was not eligible for tribal membership due to the fact that he does not possess a ' Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood ( CDIB ) " , and the associate membership did not entitle an individual to voting rights or enrollment in the tribe .Churchill has never asked for CDIB certification , and finds the idea of being " vetted " by the US government offensive .In June 1994 , the United Keetoowah Band had voted to stop awarding associate memberships . Such honorary associate membership recognizes an individual 's assistance to the tribe , but it has nothing to do with Indian ancestry , and it does not entitle an individual to vote in the tribe as a member . The Keetoowah Band states that Churchill still holds the associate membership and it has not been rescinded . In a separate interview , Ernestine Berry , formerly on the tribe 's enrollment committee and four years on its council , said that Churchill had never fulfilled a promise to help the tribe .In June 2005 , the Rocky Mountain News published an article about Churchill 's genealogy and family history . It " turned up no evidence of a single Indian ancestor " among 142 direct ancestors [ of Churchill 's ] identified from records . The News reported that both Churchill 's birth parents were listed as white on the 1930 census , as were all but two of his great @-@ great @-@ grandparents listed on previous census and other official documents . The News found that some of Churchill 's accounts of where his ancestors had lived did not agree with documented records . Numerous members of Churchill 's extended family have longstanding family legends of Indian ancestry among ancestors ; but , none was confirmed among the 142 direct forebears of Churchill who were identified .Documents in Churchill 's university personnel file show that he was granted tenure in a " special opportunity position . " In 1994 , then CU @-@ Boulder Chancellor James Corbridge refused to take action on allegations that Churchill was fraudulently claiming to be an Indian , saying " it has always been university policy that a person 's race or ethnicity is self @-@ proving . "Some of Churchill 's Native American critics , such as Vernon Bellecourt ( White Earth Ojibwe ) and Suzan Shown Harjo ( Southern Cheyenne @-@ Muscogee Creek ) , argue that his assertion of Native American ancestry without the ability to prove it might constitute misrepresentation and grounds for termination . The University has said that it does not hire on the basis of ethnicity . The University of Colorado 's Research Misconduct Committee conducted a preliminary investigation into whether Churchill misrepresented his ethnicity to " add credibility and public acceptance to his scholarship . " The committee concluded that the allegation was not " appropriate for further investigation under the definition of research misconduct . "In a 2005 interview in The Rocky Mountain News , Churchill said , " I have never been confirmed as having one @-@ quarter blood , and never said I was . And even if [ the critics ] are absolutely right , what does that have to do with this issue ? I have never claimed to be goddamned Sitting Bull . " The longtime indigenous activist Russell Means said in February of that year , " So I want , from this day forward , every media person nationally , internationally and locally to know that we have ascertained that Ward Churchill is a full @-@ blooded Indian leader . "