British encroachment into areas of South Africa already settled by the Afrikaner Boers and the competition for resources and land that developed between them as a result , led to the Second Boer War in 1899 . Pre @-@ empting the deployment of British forces , the Afrikaner Republics of the Orange Free State and the Transvaal Republic under President Paul Kruger declared war on 11 October 1899 , striking deep into the British territories of Natal and the Cape Colony . After the outbreak of war , plans for the dispatch of a combined Australian force were subsequently set aside by the British War Office and each of the six colonial governments sent separate contingents to serve with British formations , with two squadrons each of 125 men from New South Wales and Victoria , and one each from the other colonies . The first troops arrived three weeks later , with the New South Wales Lancers — who had been training in England before the war , hurriedly diverted to South Africa . On 22 November , the Lancers came under fire for the first time near Belmont , and they subsequently forced their attackers to withdraw after inflicting significant casualties on them .Following a series of minor victories , the British suffered a major setback during Black Week between 10 – 17 December 1899 , although no Australian units were involved . The first contingents of infantry from Victoria , South Australia , Western Australia , and Tasmania arrived in Cape Town on 26 November and were designated the Australian Regiment under the command of Colonel John Charles Hoad . With a need for increased mobility , they were soon converted into mounted infantry . Further units from Queensland and New South Wales arrived in December and were soon committed to the front . The first casualties occurred soon after at Sunnyside on 1 January 1900 , after 250 Queensland Mounted Infantry and a column of Canadians , British and artillery attacked a Boer laager at Belmont . Troopers David McLeod and Victor Jones were killed when their patrol clashed with the Boer forward sentries . Regardless , the Boers were surprised and during two hours of heavy fighting , more than 50 were killed and another 40 taken prisoner . Five hundred Queenslanders and the New South Wales Lancers subsequently took part in the Siege of Kimberley in February 1900 .Despite serious set @-@ backs at Colenso , Stormberg , Magersfontein , and Spion Kop in January — and with Ladysmith still under siege — the British mounted a five division counter @-@ invasion of the Orange Free State in February . The attacking force included a division of cavalry commanded by Lieutenant General John French with the New South Wales Lancers , Queensland Mounted Infantry and New South Wales Army Medical Corps attached . First , Kimberley was relieved following the battles of Modder River and Magersfontein , and the retreating Boers defeated at Paardeberg , with the New South Wales Mounted Rifles locating the Boer general , Piet Cronjé . The British entered Bloemfontein on 13 March 1900 , while Ladysmith was relieved . Disease began to take its toll and scores of men died . Still the advance continued , with the drive to Pretoria in May including more than 3 @,@ 000 Australians . Johannesburg fell on 30 May , and the Boers withdrew from Pretoria on 3 June . The New South Wales Mounted Rifles and Western Australians saw action again at Diamond Hill on 12 June . Mafeking was relieved on 17 May .Following the defeat of the Afrikaner republics still the Boers held out , forming small commando units and conducting a campaign of guerrilla warfare to disrupt British troop movements and lines of supply . This new phase of resistance led to further recruiting in the Australian colonies and the raising of the Bushmen 's Contingents , with these soldiers usually being volunteers with horse @-@ riding and shooting skills , but little military experience . After Federation in 1901 , eight Australian Commonwealth Horse battalions of the newly created Australian Army were also sent to South Africa , although they saw little fighting before the war ended . Some Australians later joined local South African irregular units , instead of returning home after discharge . These soldiers were part of the British Army , and were subject to British military discipline . Such units included the Bushveldt Carbineers which gained notoriety as the unit in which Harry " Breaker " Morant and Peter Handcock served in before their court martial and execution for war crimes .With the guerrillas requiring supplies , Koos de la Rey lead a force of 3 @,@ 000 Boers against Brakfontein , on the Elands River in Western Transvaal . The post held a large quantity of stores and was defended by 300 Australians and 200 Rhodesians . The attack began on 4 August 1900 with heavy shelling causing 32 casualties . During the night the defenders dug in , enduring shelling and rifle fire . A relief force was stopped by the Boers , while a second column turned back believing that the post had already been relieved . The siege lasted 11 days , during which more than 1 @,@ 800 shells were fired into the post . After calls to surrender were ignored by the defenders , and not prepared to risk a frontal attack , the Boers eventually retired . The Siege of Elands River was one of the major achievements of the Australians during the war , with the post finally relieved on 16 August .In response the British adopted counter @-@ insurgency tactics , including a scorched earth policy involving the burning of houses and crops , the establishment of concentration camps for Boer women and children , and a system of blockhouses and field obstacles to limit Boer mobility and to protect railway communications . Such measures required considerable expenditure , and caused much bitterness towards the British , however they soon yielded results . By mid @-@ 1901 , the bulk of the fighting was over , and British mounted units would ride at night to attack Boer farmhouses or encampments , overwhelming them with superior numbers . Indicative of warfare in last months of 1901 , the New South Wales Mounted Rifles travelled 1 @,@ 814 miles ( 2 @,@ 919 km ) and were involved in 13 skirmishes , killing 27 Boers , wounding 15 , and capturing 196 for the loss of five dead and 19 wounded . Other notable Australian actions included Slingersfontein , Pink Hill , Rhenosterkop and Haartebeestefontein .Australians were not always successful however , suffering a number of heavy losses late in the war . On 12 June 1901 , the 5th Victorian Mounted Rifles lost 19 killed and 42 wounded at Wilmansrust , near Middleburg after poor security allowed a force of 150 Boers to surprise them . On 30 October 1901 , Victorians of the Scottish Horse Regiment also suffered heavy casualties at Gun Hill , although 60 Boers were also killed in the engagement . Meanwhile , at Onverwacht on 4 January 1902 , the 5th Queensland Imperial Bushmen lost 13 killed and 17 wounded . Ultimately the Boers were defeated , and the war ended on 31 May 1902 . In all 16 @,@ 175 Australians served in South Africa , and perhaps another 10 @,@ 000 enlisted as individuals in Imperial units ; casualties included 251 killed in action , 267 died of disease and 43 missing in action , while a further 735 were wounded . Six Australians were awarded the Victoria Cross .