Stelae are carved stone shafts , often sculpted with figures and hieroglyphs . A selection of the most notable stelae at Tikal follows :Stela 1 dates to the 5th century and depicts the king Siyaj Chan K 'awiil II in a standing position .Stela 4 is dated to AD 396 , during the reign of Yax Nuun Ayiin after the intrusion of Teotihuacan in the Maya area . The stela displays a mix of Maya and Teotihuacan qualities , and deities from both cultures . It has a portrait of the king with the Underworld Jaguar God under one arm and the Mexican Tlaloc under the other . His helmet is a simplified version of the Teotihuacan War Serpent . Unusually for Maya sculpture , but typically for Teotihuacan , Yax Nuun Ayiin is depicted with a frontal face , rather than in profile .Stela 5 was dedicated in 744 by Yik 'in Chan K 'awiil .Stela 6 is a badly damaged monument dating to 514 and bears the name of the " Lady of Tikal " who celebrated the end of the 4th K 'atun in that year .Stela 10 is twinned with Stela 12 but is badly damaged . It described the accession of Kaloomte ' B 'alam in the early 6th century and earlier events in his career , including the capture of a prisoner depicted on the monument .Stela 11 was the last monument ever erected at Tikal ; it was dedicated in 869 by Jasaw Chan K 'awiil II .Stela 12 is linked to the queen known as the " Lady of Tikal " and king Kaloomte ' B 'alam . The queen is described as performing the year @-@ ending rituals but the monument was dedicated in honor of the king .Stela 16 was dedicated in 711 , during the reign of Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I. The sculpture , including a portrait of the king and a hieroglyphic text , are limited to the front face of the monument . It was found in Complex N , west of Temple III .Stela 18 was one of two stelae erected by Yax Nuun Ayiin I to celebrate the k 'atun @-@ ending of AD 396 . It was re @-@ erected at the base of Temple 34 , his funerary shrine .Stela 19 was dedicated in 790 by Yax Nuun Ayiin II .Stela 20 was found in Complex P , in Group H , and was moved to the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología in Guatemala City .Stela 21 was dedicated in 736 by Yik 'in Chan K 'awiil . Only the bottom of the stela is intact , the rest having been mutilated in ancient times . The surviving sculpture is of fine quality , consisting of the feet of a figure and of accompanying hieroglyphic text . The stela is associated with Altar 9 and is located in front of Temple VI .Stela 22 was dedicated in 771 by Yax Nuun Ayiin II in the northern enclosure of Group Q , a twin @-@ pyramid complex . The face of the figure on the stela has been mutilated .Stela 23 was broken in antiquity and was re @-@ erected in a residential complex . The defaced portrait on the monument is that of the so @-@ called " Lady of Tikal " , a daughter of Chak Tok Ich 'aak II who became queen at the age of six but never ruled in her own right , being paired with male co @-@ rulers . It dates to the early 6th century .Stela 24 was erected at the foot of Temple 3 in 810 , accompanied by Altar 7 . Both were broken into fragments in ancient times , although the name of Dark Sun survives on three fragments .Stela 26 was found in the summit shrine of Temple 34 , underneath a broken masonry altar . The monument had originally been erected at the base of the temple during the Early Classic period and was later broken , probably at the beginning of the Late Classic . Its remains were then interred within the temple shrine .Stela 29 bears a Long Count ( 8 @.@ 12 @.@ 14 @.@ 8 @.@ 15 ) date equivalent to AD 292 , the earliest surviving Long Count date from the Maya lowlands . The stela is also the earliest monument to bear the Tikal emblem glyph . It bears a sculpture of the king facing to the right , holding the head of an underworld jaguar god , one of the patron deities of the city . The stela was deliberately smashed during the 6th century or some time later , the upper portion was dragged away and dumped in a rubbish tip close to Temple III , to be uncovered by archaeologists in 1959 .Stela 30 is the first surviving monument to be erected after the Hiatus . Its style and iconography is similar to that of Caracol , one of the more important of Tikal 's enemies .Stela 31 is the accession monument of Siyaj Chan K 'awiil II , also bearing two portraits of his father , Yax Nuun Ayiin , as a youth dressed as a Teotihuacan warrior . He carries a spearthrower in one hand and bears a shield decorated with the face of Tlaloc , the Teotihuacan war god . In ancient times the sculpture was broken and the upper portion was moved to the summit of Temple 33 and ritually buried . Stela 31 has been described as the greatest Early Classic sculpture to survive at Tikal . A long hieroglyphic text is carved onto the back of the monument , the longest to survive from the Early Classic , which describes the arrival of Siyah K 'ak ' at El Peru and Tikal in January 378 . It was also the first stela at Tikal to be carved on all four faces .Stela 32 is a fragmented monument with a foreign Teotihuacan @-@ style sculpture apparently depicting the lord of that city with the attributes of the central Mexican storm god Tlaloc , including his goggle eyes and tasselled headdress .Stela 39 is a broken monument that was erected in the Lost World complex . The upper portion of the stela is missing but the lower portion shows the lower body and legs of Chak Tok Ich 'aak , holding a flint axe in his left hand . He is trampling the figure of a bound , richly dressed captive . The monument is dated to AD 376 . The text on the back of the monument describes a bloodletting ritual to celebrate a Katun @-@ ending . The stela also names Chak Tok Ich 'aak I 's father as K 'inich Muwaan Jol .Stela 40 bears a portrait of Kan Chitam and dates to AD 468 .Stela 43 is paired with Altar 35 . It is a plain monument at the base of the stairway of Temple IV .