Tikal has been partially restored by the University of Pennsylvania and the government of Guatemala . It was one of the largest of the Classic period Maya cities and was one of the largest cities in the Americas . The architecture of the ancient city is built from limestone and includes the remains of temples that tower over 70 metres ( 230 ft ) high , large royal palaces , in addition to a number of smaller pyramids , palaces , residences , administrative buildings , platforms and inscribed stone monuments . There is even a building which seemed to have been a jail , originally with wooden bars across the windows and doors . There are also seven courts for playing the Mesoamerican ballgame , including a set of 3 in the Seven Temples Plaza , a unique feature in Mesoamerica .The limestone used for construction was local and quarried on @-@ site . The depressions formed by the extraction of stone for building were plastered to waterproof them and were used as reservoirs , together with some waterproofed natural depressions . The main plazas were surfaced with stucco and laid at a gradient that channelled rainfall into a system of canals that fed the reservoirs .The residential area of Tikal covers an estimated 60 square kilometres ( 23 sq mi ) , much of which has not yet been cleared , mapped , or excavated . A huge set of earthworks discovered by Dennis E. Puleston and Donald Callender in the 1960s rings Tikal with a 6 @-@ metre ( 20 ft ) wide trench behind a rampart . The 16 square kilometres ( 6 @.@ 2 sq mi ) area around the site core has been intensively mapped ; it may have enclosed an area of some 125 square kilometres ( 48 sq mi ) ( see below ) . Population estimates place the demographic size of the site between 10 @,@ 000 and 90 @,@ 000 , and possibly 425 @,@ 000 in the surrounding area . Recently , a project exploring the defensive earthworks has shown that the scale of the earthworks is highly variable and that in many places it is inconsequential as a defensive feature . In addition , some parts of the earthwork were integrated into a canal system . The earthwork of Tikal varies significantly in coverage from what was originally proposed and it is much more complex and multifaceted than originally thought .