The mountains lie within the Basin and Range Province or Great Basin of the Western United States , which is characterized by a series of parallel fault blocks that form long north – south mountain ranges separated by wide , high @-@ desert valleys . The Trout Creek Mountains are uplifted and tilted blocks with steep escarpments along the southern and eastern sides of the range . The southern area of the range , known as The Granites , has numerous outcroppings of Cretaceous age granite . These granite outcrops are commonly found in the eroded valleys below the volcanic ridgelines .The Trout Creek Mountains are composed mostly of basalt from a shield volcano that once stood where Steens Mountain is today . Crustal thinning and the Yellowstone hotspot , which was then beneath southeastern Oregon , induced eruptions from Steens and nearby vents about 17 million years ago , in the Miocene . The vents produced a series of lava flows that spread across the land now known as the Trout Creek Mountains . Eruptions from the Steens volcano lasted for about one million years , and at least 70 separate lava flows occurred . Under the resulting basalt rock lie much older metamorphic rocks that may be related to some of the Triassic age formations of the Blue Mountains in northeastern Oregon . Within these metamorphic rocks are diorite and granodiorite intrusive bodies which were presumably intruded during the Cretaceous Period .The broad McDermitt Caldera is a prominent geologic feature in the Trout Creek Mountains . The oval @-@ shaped caldera is a collapsed lava dome that straddles the Oregon – Nevada border on the eastern side of the range and south of the Oregon Canyon Mountains . It is about 28 miles ( 45 km ) long and 22 miles ( 35 km ) wide . The lava dome was created by volcanic eruptions in the early Miocene . A total of five large ash flows were produced along with a large rhyolite dome structure . The caldera formed when the dome collapsed about 16 million years ago . The caldera contains significant ore deposits , and mercury and uranium have been mined at eight or more sites in and around the caldera . Other areas in the caldera were mined for ores of antimony , cesium , and lithium .