For most of the last century military service has been one of the single greatest shared experiences of white Australian males , and although this is now changing due to the professionalisation of the military and the absence of major wars during the second half of the 20th century , it continues to influence Australian society to this day . War and military service have been defining influences in Australian history , while a major part of the national identity has been built on an idealised conception of the Australian experience of war and of soldiering , known as the Anzac spirit . These ideals include notions of endurance , courage , ingenuity , humour , larrikinism , egalitarianism and mateship ; traits which , according to popular thought , defined the behaviour of Australian soldiers fighting at Gallipoli during the First World War . The Gallipoli campaign was one of the first international events that saw Australians taking part as Australians and has been seen as a key event in forging a sense of national identity .The relationship between war and Australian society has been shaped by two of the more enduring themes of Australian strategic culture : bandwagoning with a powerful ally and expeditionary warfare . Indeed , Australian defence policy was closely linked to Britain until the Japanese crisis of 1942 , while since then an alliance with the United States has underwritten its security . Arguably , this pattern of bandwagoning — both for cultural reasons such as shared values and beliefs , as well as for more pragmatic security concerns — has ensured that Australian strategic policy has often been defined by relations with its allies . Regardless , a tendency towards strategic complacency has also been evident , with Australians often reluctant to think about defence issues or to allocate resources until a crisis arises ; a trait which has historically resulted in unpreparedness for major military challenges .Reflecting both the realist and liberal paradigms of international relations and the conception of national interests , a number of other important themes in Australian strategic culture are also obvious . Such themes include : an acceptance of the state as the key actor in international politics , the centrality of notions of Westphalian sovereignty , a belief in the enduring relevance and legitimacy of armed force as a guarantor of security , and the proposition that the status quo in international affairs should only be changed peacefully . Likewise , multilateralism , collective security and defence self @-@ reliance have also been important themes . Change has been more evolutionary than revolutionary and these strategic behaviours have persisted throughout its history , being the product of Australian society 's democratic political tradition and Judaeo @-@ Christian Anglo @-@ European heritage , as well its associated values , beliefs and economic , political and religious ideology . These behaviours are also reflective of its unique security dilemma as a largely European island on the edge of the Asia @-@ Pacific , and the geopolitical circumstances of a middle power physically removed from the centres of world power . To be sure , during threats to the core Australia has often found itself defending the periphery and perhaps as a result , it has frequently become involved in foreign wars . Throughout these conflicts Australian soldiers — known colloquially as Diggers — have often been noted , somewhat paradoxically , for both their fighting abilities and their humanitarian qualities .