The music for " Where the Streets Have No Name " originated from a demo that guitarist The Edge composed the night before the group resumed The Joshua Tree sessions . In an upstairs room at Melbeach House — his newly purchased home — The Edge used a four @-@ track tape machine to record an arrangement of keyboards , bass , guitar , and a drum machine . Realising that the album sessions were approaching the end and that the band were short on exceptional live songs , The Edge wanted to " conjure up the ultimate U2 live @-@ song " , so he imagined what he would like to hear at a future U2 show if he were a fan . After finishing the rough mix , he felt he had come up with " the most amazing guitar part and song of [ his ] life " . With no one in the house to share the demo with , The Edge recalls dancing around and punching the air in celebration .Although the band liked the demo , it was difficult for them to record the song . Bassist Adam Clayton said , " At the time it sounded like a foreign language , whereas now we understand how it works " . The arrangement , with two time signature shifts and frequent chord changes , was rehearsed many times , but the group struggled to get a performance they liked . According to co @-@ producer Daniel Lanois , " that was the science project song . I remember having this massive schoolhouse blackboard , as we call them . I was holding a pointer , like a college professor , walking the band through the chord changes like a fucking nerd . It was ridiculous . " Co @-@ producer Brian Eno estimates that half of the album sessions were spent trying to record a suitable version of " Where the Streets Have No Name " . The band worked on a single take for weeks , but as Eno explained , that particular version had a lot of problems with it and the group continued trying to fix it up . Through all of their work , they had gradually replaced each instrument take until nothing remained from the original performance .So much time had been spent on " screwdriver work " that Eno thought it would be best to start from scratch . His idea was to " stage an accident " and have the song 's tapes erased . He said that this was not to force abandonment of the song , but rather that it would be more effective to start again with a fresh performance . At one point , Eno had the tapes cued up and ready to be recorded over , but this erasure never took place ; according to engineer Flood , fellow engineer Pat McCarthy returned to the control room and upon seeing Eno ready to erase the tapes , dropped the tray of tea he was carrying and physically restrained Eno .The studio version of the song was compiled from several different takes . It was one of several songs mixed by Steve Lillywhite in the final months of recording The Joshua Tree . Drummer Larry Mullen , Jr. later said of the song , " It took so long to get that song right , it was difficult for us to make any sense of it . It only became a truly great song through playing live . On the record , musically , it 's not half the song it is live . "