B of the Bang originally stood 56 metres ( 184 ft ) tall with 180 hollow tapered steel columns or spikes radiating from a central core . It was angled at 30 degrees and supported by five 25 m ( 82 ft ) long , tapered steel legs which connected to the spikes 22 m ( 72 ft ) above the ground . The sculpture weighed 165 tonnes , with the concrete in the foundations weighing over 1 @,@ 000 tonnes , including a 400 m2 ( 4 @,@ 300 sq ft ) reinforced concrete slab . The foundations are 20 m ( 66 ft ) deep .The sculpture was made from the same weathering steel ( also known as Cor @-@ Ten ) as the Angel of the North sculpture , which gradually develops a tightly adhering oxide layer as it is exposed to the elements . This layer inhibits further corrosion by reducing its permeability to water . As part of the design , the spikes swayed slightly in the wind in order to withstand gusts in excess of 100 mph ( 160 km / h ) . At the time of construction a time capsule was placed in one of the spikes of the sculpture , containing children 's poems and paintings , due to be opened circa 2300 . The location of the time capsule after dismantling is currently unknown .B of the Bang was located next to the City of Manchester Stadium at Sportcity , in Beswick , at the corner of Alan Turing Way and Ashton New Road ; . It took its name from a quotation of British sprinter Linford Christie in which he said that he started his races not merely at the ' bang ' of the starting pistol , but at ' The B of the Bang ' . The artwork had been nicknamed KerPlunk by the locals after the popular children 's game from the 1970s .Prior to the construction of Aspire at the University of Nottingham , B of the Bang was Britain 's tallest sculpture at well over twice the height of the Angel of the North , which stands at 66 feet ( 20 m ) . It was designed to look like an exploding firework and was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa . It was commissioned by New East Manchester Limited to commemorate the 2002 Commonwealth Games . The design was selected by a panel consisting of both local residents and art experts via a competition in 2002 and was designed by Thomas Heatherwick .