" Sorry " was one of the first tracks developed for Confessions on a Dance Floor , along with " Hung Up " and " Future Lovers " . It was also the one which took the most time to finish because Madonna " thought it was too melodramatic and could never decide when it was right . " The songs were developed with a remixed perspective in mind . Madonna commented that , " Whenever I make records , I often like the remixes better than the original ones . [ ... ] So I thought , screw that . I 'm going to start from that perspective " . She promoted the album at the dance party " Misshapes " held at Luke & Leroy 's nightclub in Greenwich Village , invited by Junior Sanchez to take over the DJ booth where she mixed " Hung Up " with " Sorry " . Musically , " Sorry " is an uptempo dance song containing layers of beats and strong vocal on the chorus . It is set in common time with a moderately fast dance groove tempo of 132 beats per minute . Composed in the key of C minor , Madonna 's vocal range spans from F3 to G4 . It follows the chord progression of E ♭ – Cm – A ♭ – B ♭ during the spoken introduction . It then changes to Fm – Gm @-@ Cm in the chorus , while continuing in A ♭ – Cm – A ♭ – Fm in the intermediate verses , ultimately ending in repeated lines of " I 've heard it all before " .Lyrically the song has excerpts of different languages including French , Spanish , Italian , Dutch , Hebrew , Hindi , Polish and Japanese . The song talks about personal empowerment and self @-@ sufficiency , denoting a shift in focus of Madonna as an artist from her previous songs about supremacy like " Everybody " ( 1982 ) , " Vogue " ( 1990 ) or " Music " ( 2000 ) which was centered around the subject of music itself . Among the various remixes , the Pet Shop Boys remix incorporated Whitney Houston 's " I Wanna Dance with Somebody ( Who Loves Me ) " with a more pronounced bassline and uses a double breakdown in the introduction . Pet Shop Boys and Madonna had always mutually admired each other , from the time they wrote the song " Heart " ( 1988 ) for Madonna but never delivered it . The remix had added lyrics sung by band member Neil Tennant which subsequently appeared on their remix album Disco Four . Madonna 's voice hits on the first chorus which was remixed to have a masculine synth and a serious hook . A breakdown happens before the fifth minute ends , leading to the entry of programmed drum sounds after which the song ends .