In March 2007 , it was reported that German authorities were increasing their efforts to monitor Scientology in response to the opening of a new Scientology headquarters in Berlin . On December 7 , 2007 , German federal and state interior ministers expressed the opinion that the Scientology organization was continuing to pursue anti @-@ constitutional goals , restricting " essential basic and human rights like the dignity of man or the right to equal treatment " , and asked Germany 's domestic intelligence agencies to collect and evaluate the information required for a possible judicial inquiry aimed at banning the organization .The move was criticized by German politicians from all sides of the political spectrum , with legal experts and intelligence agencies expressing concern that an attempt to ban the organization would likely fail in the courts . Sabine Weber , president of the Church of Scientology in Berlin , called the accusations " unrealistic " and " absurd " and said that the German interior ministers ' evaluation was based on " a few sentences out of 500 @,@ 000 pages of Scientological literature " . She added , " I can also find hundreds of quotes in the Bible that are totalitarian but that doesn 't mean I will demand the ban of Christianity . "In November 2008 , the government abandoned its attempts to ban Scientology , after finding insufficient evidence of illegal or unconstitutional activity . The report by the BfV cited knowledge gaps and noted several points that would make the success of any legal undertaking to ban Scientology doubtful . First , the BfV report stated there was no evidence that Scientology could be viewed as a foreign organization ; there were German churches and missions , a German board , German bylaws , and no evidence that the organization was " totally remote @-@ controlled " from the United States . A foreign organization would have been much easier to ban than a German one . The second argument on which those proposing the ban had counted was Scientology 's aggressive opposition to the constitution . Here , the report found that Scientology 's behaviour gave no grounds to assume that Scientology aggressively sought to attack and overthrow Germany 's free and democratic basic order . " Neither its bylaws nor any other utterances " supported the " conclusion that the organization had criminal aims " . The BfV also considered whether there were grounds to act against the Church of Scientology on the basis that they were practising medicine without a licence , but expressed doubts that a court would accept this reasoning .Commenting on the decision to drop the ban attempt , Ehrhart Körting , Berlin 's interior minister , said , " This organization pursues goals – through its writings , its concept and its disrespect for minorities – that we cannot tolerate and that we consider in violation of the constitution . But they put very little of this into practice . The appraisal of the Government at the moment is that [ Scientology ] is a lousy organization , but it is not an organization that we have to take a hammer to . " The Church of Scientology expressed satisfaction with the decision , describing it as the " only one possible " . Monitoring of Scientology 's activities by the German intelligence services continues .In February 2009 , the Berlin Administrative Court ruled that a poster placed by local city authorities on an advertising column next to a bus stop in front of the Berlin Scientology headquarters , warning passers @-@ by of the potential dangers Scientology activities posed to democracy and individual freedom , should be removed . The decision was upheld in July 2009 by the Upper Administrative Court of Berlin @-@ Brandenburg which ruled that the poster violated Scientologists ' basic religious rights .