The 15th Brigade took over the forward positions from the 7th Brigade on 17 April . Initial dispositions had the 24th Infantry Battalion on the Buin Road around Kero Creek , with the 58th / 59th around Barara , north @-@ east of Slater 's Knoll , and the 57th / 60th , when it arrived to relieve the 9th , would be positioned further east astride a secondary , parallel track known to the Australians as the Commando Road . Two days later , Hammer received the order to commence the advance towards the Hongorai from Savige , who offered him the support of the 29th Brigade as a mobile reserve in case of sudden counter @-@ attack . In a change to the tactics that the Australians had previously employed prior to the fighting around Slater 's Knoll , from early May they advanced on a two @-@ battalion front , instead of one . The 24th Infantry Battalion was in the van , moving along the Buin Road with the 58th / 59th protecting its flank and rear ; while 5 @,@ 000 yd ( 4 @,@ 600 m ) further inland the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion , commencing on 3 May , advanced along the Commando Road from Rumiki , after taking over from the 9th Infantry Battalion .Moving forward under a creeping barrage as they moved beyond Tokinotu , the 24th Infantry Battalion was the first to contact the Japanese , carrying out an attack against Japanese positions around Dawe 's Creek on 17 April . Supported by a troop of Matilda tanks from the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , an artillery barrage which fired over 700 shells , two infantry companies — ' C ' and ' D ' — from the 24th attacked the position while another — ' A ' Company — carried out a flanking manoeuvre to cut another track further north towards Kindara and Hatai . The left forward company — ' D ' Company — reached its objective without trouble ; however , ' C ' Company — on the right along with the troop of tanks — came up against stiff Japanese resistance and became bogged down . ' A ' Company also became embroiled in heavy fighting along the Hatai track . In support of ' A ' Company , Matilidas came forward and raked the jungle , hacking through the undergrowth to reveal several Japanese pillboxes , which were destroyed by the Australian armour . As night fell , ' C ' Company dug in before resuming the attack the next morning . Engineers were brought forward , as was a bulldozer , and the gap was bridged . Amidst heavy fighting , the Australians forced their way across the creek . By the time that the position had been taken in the afternoon and the infantry had advanced to the line of exploitation 400 yd ( 370 m ) beyond the creek , 37 Japanese had been killed for the loss of seven Australians killed and 19 wounded . After this , the Australians continued their advance towards Sindou Creek , which was a further 1 mi ( 1 @.@ 6 km ) to the southeast . In response , the Japanese launched a number of determined counterattacks over the course of the following week , although these were turned back . During this time , the Australians sent a number of patrols out in front of their forward elements , one of which managed to slip through the Japanese defensive positions either side of the Buin Road and carried out a reconnaissance of the Hongorai River about 1 @,@ 000 yd ( 910 m ) south of the main crossing . Further patrols were carried out , as well as a number of ambushes , before the advance was resumed on 26 April .Resuming their advance , the Australians were supported by three squadrons of Corsairs from the Royal New Zealand Air Force — Nos. 14 , 22 and 26 Squadrons — which bombed and strafed the ground in front of the advancing infantry , as well as a creeping barrage of artillery and mortar fire . With such strong support the Japanese offered little resistance and over the course of two days the 24th Infantry Battalion covered almost a third of the distance to the Hongorai , for just one man wounded . Further progress was made over the next week , but on 4 May the advance was slowed when they encountered a roadblock defended by a field gun along with a machine gun , mines and other improvised explosive devices . After this , the 15th Brigade 's engineer support were called upon to regularly carry out route clearance and proving operations as the Japanese became increasingly desperate to destroy the Australian armour , to the extent that they were prepared to sacrifice an artillery piece in order to lure the Australian tanks into a trap where they could be destroyed by mines . The Japanese began to adapt their tactics in other ways also . To negate the effectiveness of the Australian tanks , the Japanese began to position themselves off the roads , forcing the infantry to fight without their armoured support . Additionally , the Japanese began to concentrate their artillery with increasing accuracy upon the advancing infantry , which they kept under constant observation and fire .Meanwhile , the previous day , 3 May , the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion had begun operating along the parallel Commando Road to the north . Here they had a number of encounters and suffered casualties due to their inexperience in patrolling , which resulted in them being ambushed . They also kept up a steady advance and eventually beat the main force in reaching , and crossing the river , arriving there on 6 May . On 5 May , along the Buin Road , the 24th Infantry Battalion had pressed forward again . Advancing with a tank troop in support , they came up against a concealed field gun defended by approximately 100 Japanese . After the lead Matilda 's machine gun jammed , the field gun opened fire on it , damaging it and wounding its crew . Moving around the stricken tank , the second Matilda , armed with a howitzer , opened fire and destroyed the field gun before sweeping the Japanese defenders from the position . That night , the Japanese artillery opened up on the Australian position with a heavy barrage , and the following morning put in a company @-@ sized counter @-@ attack . The fighting lasted for over two @-@ and @-@ a @-@ half hours , but when it was over the Australians remained in possession of the position having repulsed the attack . In doing so , they suffered one killed and nine wounded , while the attacking Japanese had suffered heavily , losing 58 men killed . It was the biggest loss since the action at Slater 's Knoll and it spelt the end of their attempt to defend the Hongorai .After this , the Australians were able to resume their advance to the river on 7 May without further opposition . The previous three weeks in which they had advanced 7 @,@ 000 yd ( 6 @,@ 400 m ) to the Hongorai had been costly for them , however , with the Australian 24th Infantry Battalion losing 25 killed and 95 wounded . Against this , the Japanese had lost at least 169 killed .