Altogether , eight witnesses delivered their testimonies on February 5 , 2013 . Among them were friends of Daniel Nosek . Nosek and three friends had come to attend the concert from Vrchlabí , a town in mountains some 130 kilometres ( 81 mi ) northwest of Prague . They described Nosek as a huge fan of Lamb of God who had been able to secure an autograph from a guitar player before the concert had started .Nosek 's friend Jan Jebavý testified that Nosek climbed the stage , and as he turned around towards the crowd he was pushed by Blythe off the stage . He said he was " 100 % sure Blythe pushed Nosek with both hands . " He further said that Blythe 's behavior deviated from all the concerts he had attended in the past , commenting that Blythe was visibly furious . He further claimed that Nosek was not the first person to be chased off the stage by Blythe , with another fan being kicked , choked and receiving a punch from Blythe . Jebavý corroborated Blythe 's testimony that Blythe asked " Are you okay ? " after Nosek fell and that the crowd gave him a positive reply . However , as Nosek fell sick after the concert , they called him an ambulance . According to Jebavý , the band had not warned the fans against getting on stage and the security guards did not pay much attention to it .Nosek 's other friend Ondřej Vlach testified that Nosek 's fall happened in a break between the end of concert and the encore . Nosek climbed the stage together with another fan as the band members were leaving to go backstage . According to him , Blythe ran into the two fans and pushed them both off . While the other fan was caught by a couple of fans remaining under the stage , Nosek fell directly on the ground . According to Vlach , there were fewer fans in front of the stage due to the break . Vlach further testified that after the fall , Nosek went to sit on a bench , where he was fetched a water bottle . Nosek began vomiting about half an hour after the fall and as his friends realized that he had a bulge at the back of his head , they called an ambulance for fear he might have a concussion . Vlach said that he understood Blythe 's gesture in the break as an invitation to the stage .Another person to testify was Robert Havelka , who worked as a security guard the night of the incident . Havelka said that the guardrail was too close to the stage , but not so close as to make a platform for climbing the stage . He testified that he pulled one person off the stage and that another person fell off before he could be secured . He further said that the fan 's fall might have been helped by someone else , perhaps the singer , though he did not see it precisely .Blythe 's defense team attacked differences between the testimonies the witnesses gave after the incident in 2010 and at the court . Among other things , one of the witnesses originally alleged that Nosek and Blythe shook hands or that one of them offered hand to another on stage ; however , at the court hearing , he testified that there was no prior contact between them . Blythe also argued that video evidence shown in court refuted claims about his aggressive behavior .