Milan Pořádek , the fan whom Blythe admitted to shoving off the stage , testified on the third day of the trial . Pořádek said he climbed the stage twice in order to stage dive ; he changed his mind during the third attempt to get on stage . Pořádek testified that Blythe knocked him down , knelt on him and held him down for a moment , but Blythe definitely did not choke him . He also admitted that taking into account the fact that he ( Pořádek ) was drunk and the way he acted , Blythe 's reaction was adequate . He commented that he grasped the fact that he was not wanted on stage .Another witness who had attended the concert at the rear of the crowd testified that Blythe 's behavior was standard to metal concerts , saying that metal bands always put on angry and tough acts and the concert at issue was no exception . She said that it was evident that Blythe did not want any fans on the stage . Neither the two nor any other witness who took the stand that day gave a testimony as to the moment of Nosek 's fall at the end of the concert .The judge also read a sworn statement from Abaton 's former producer , who stated that she had not known about the incident . She was aware that an ambulance was called that evening , but learned about the reasons for that only later , during the police investigation . The court further heard that Lamb of God had sent a list of security demands to the concert venue , including that barriers should be placed 1 @.@ 5 metres ( 4 @.@ 9 ft ) from the stage . Promoter Tomáš Fiala testified that although this was not the case , the band had not expressed any concerns to him either before or after the concert .Randy Blythe was called again to the stand that day . The judge first alerted him that he had the right to remain silent and can deny answering his questions . The judge went again through the Blythe 's testimony and , with a view to the previous witness statements , asked Blythe whether he insists that it was Milan Pořádek whom Blythe threw off the stage . Blythe responded by saying : " To the best of my knowledge , it was Milan Pořádek who was coming up [ on stage ] every time . "Also that day , expert medical witness Michal Pogoši took the stand . According to The Prague Post , Pogoši testified that Nosek 's cause of death was pneumonia resulting from a blow to the brainstem . Pogoši added that the " mortality rate from this kind of injury is around 40 percent , and that doctors couldn 't have done more to save the patient . " Nosek was initially taken to a nearby hospital less than a kilometer from the venue , where the initial diagnosis took place . Since this hospital did not have a specialized neurology department , Nosek was transferred to another hospital after the diagnosis . There , Nosek underwent two operations , first to tend to the injury and second to reduce pressure on brain by removing some bone .Finally , defense asked for adjournment as a key witness fell ill . The court decided to continue with the hearings the next day , after which the hearings would be adjourned until March 4 , 2013 , in order to hear the defense 's witness . Blythe committed to return when the trial resumed .