The trial started on February 4 , 2013 . Blythe testified that when he wanted to see the club before the concert , Lamb of God 's technician told him that the club was terrible and messy . According to Blythe , the technician went on , saying that the stage was small , there were too many people , and that it was rather dangerous .Blythe , who is nearsighted , took off his glasses before entering the stage , which together with the smoke and light effects allegedly left him half @-@ blind . Blythe said that people could easily reach the band members or climb up to the stage . One of the fans , who was identified as Milan Pořádek by Czech newspapers , and who was scheduled to testify later during the proceedings , managed to climb the stage twice without being stopped by security . Blythe testified that during the first attempt , Pořádek rushed the stage and started waving his arms before stage diving . The second time , he tried to put his arms around Blythe in an attempt to hug him . Blythe , who according to his own words perceived this as a danger , caught Pořádek 's collar , pushed him on the ground , knelt on him and repeatedly told him to stop . He then led the fan by his hair to the edge of the stage , where the fan jumped off . It was only after watching a video of the incident that Blythe found out that a security officer was actually pushing the fan from back . Blythe further said that he saw Pořádek trying to reach the stage yet again before finally being stopped by security .Later , when another fan tried to climb the stage , Blythe thought that it was Pořádek again . Blythe testified that he approached the fan and pushed him with both hands out of the stage in the belief that the crowd would catch him , which it did not . Jiří Choroš , author of video which caught the previous incidents with Pořádek , testified that the fan was for a moment lying on the ground with nobody helping him . Blythe further commented that he saw the fan get up and that other fans showed him thumbs up . Blythe insisted that he never saw Nosek nor came into contact with him . It was not until the arrest two years later that he found out about Nosek 's death .Blythe further testified that he was not under the influence of alcohol during the concert and that he had never used any drugs . Chris Adler , Lamb of God 's drummer , testified that he had not seen anything from the back of the stage and further proclaimed that Blythe 's aggressiveness is only a stage act . According to Adler , Blythe is a calm , moderate , and well @-@ read person . The defense also presented videos from various Lamb of God concerts in order to demonstrate that metal music is very energetic and that Blythe regularly cheers to the crowd , but not to encourage people to climb the stage .Blythe also alleged that after learning about Nosek 's death , he had written a letter to the Nosek family , in which he offered help and a meeting in @-@ person . Daniel Nosek 's father , however , testified that the family has not been contacted by anyone from the band nor by the defense team . Nosek 's father confirmed that his son had been healthy up until the day of the incident . The Nosek family 's representative brought a claim for damages in the amount of CZK 10 @,@ 000 @,@ 000 ( approx . US $ 530 @,@ 000 ) .