Meridian has operated under the mayor @-@ council or " strong mayor " form of government since 1985 . A mayor is elected every four years by the population at @-@ large . The five members of the city council are elected every four years from each of the city 's five wards , considered single @-@ member districts . The mayor , the chief executive officer of the city , is responsible for administering and leading the day @-@ to @-@ day operations of city government . The city council is the legislative arm of the government , setting policy and annually adopting the city 's operating budget .City Hall , which has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places , is located at 601 23rd Avenue . The current mayor is Percy Bland . Members of the city council include Dr. George M. Thomas , representative from Ward 1 , Kenneth Dustin Markham , representative from Ward 2 , Barbara Henson , representative from Ward 3 , Kim Houston , representative from Ward 4 , and Randy Hammon , representative from Ward 5 . The council clerk is Pam McInnis . In total , the city employs 570 people .The city established a Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) shortly after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 , becoming the only local DHS in the state . The team oversees an area of nine counties . Upon receiving $ 2 @.@ 5 million in grants from the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency and other organizations , the department began training law enforcement offices from other Southern states in passenger rail rescue as well as offering civilian classes in basic handguns , Boy Scout first aid and hunting , and firearms training . The DHS helps during times of crisis such as Hurricane Ivan in September 2005 , when the department helped establish and support shelters for 700 evacuees . The city now serves as the leader of one of the task forces in the Mississippi DHS , a combination of three nine @-@ county teams .Headed by police chief Lee Shelbourn since 2009 , the Meridian Police Department consists of 115 full @-@ time officers as well as part @-@ time and reserve staff available . In 2009 , the department 's Criminal Investigations Division responded to 4000 cases , 2000 of which were felonies . In 2000 , 2094 crimes were reported , up slightly from 2008 crimes the preceding year . Meridian has been described as " the safest city in Mississippi with more than 30 @,@ 000 people . " The East Mississippi Correctional Facility is located in unincorporated Lauderdale County , near Meridian . It is operated by the GEO Group on behalf of the Mississippi Department of Corrections . The chief of the Meridian Fire Department is Anthony Clayton . The fire department responded to more than 1600 calls in 2009 , including 123 structural fires and 609 emergency service calls .The Mississippi Department of Mental Health operates the East Mississippi State Hospital in Meridian .The United States Postal Service operates the Meridian , North Meridian , and the West Meridian Station post offices .In state politics , the Mississippi Senate district map divides the city into three sections . The northern tip of the city is in the 31st State Senate District and seats Terry Clark Burton ( R ) . A strip of the city from the southwest corner up to the northeast corner comprises part of the 32nd State Senate District and seats Sampson Jackson , II ( D ) . The western and southeastern portions of the city lie in the 33rd State Senate District and seats Videt Carmichael ( R ) . In the Mississippi House of Representatives districts , the city is divided into four districts . The southern and eastern portions of the city reside in House District 81 and are represented by Steven A. Horne ( R ) . The city 's core makes up the entirety of House District 82 and is represented by Wilbert L. Jones ( D ) . Surrounding House District 82 is House District 83 , represented by Greg Snowden ( R ) . The western section of the city , along with a small section in the north , lie in House District 84 and are represented by Tad Campbell ( R ) .On the national level , the city is located in Mississippi 's 3rd congressional district , represented by Gregg Harper ( R ) , who has been in office since 2009 . Lauderdale County , home to Meridian , has voted for the Republican candidate in every United States presidential election since 1972 . Prior to the shift to the Republican Party , white area voters supported Democratic Party candidates , as for decades since the late nineteenth century , it was a one @-@ party state .