Ward LeRoy Churchill ( born 1947 ) is an American author and political activist . He was a professor of ethnic studies at the University of Colorado Boulder from 1990 until 2007 . The primary focus of his work is on the historical treatment of political dissenters and Native Americans by the United States government . His work features controversial and provocative views , written in a direct , often confrontational style .In January 2005 , Churchill 's work attracted controversy because of the circulation of a 2001 essay , " On the Justice of Roosting Chickens " , in which he argued the September 11 attacks were a natural and unavoidable consequence of unlawful US foreign policy over the latter half of the 20th century ; the essay is well known for Churchill 's use of the phrase " little Eichmanns " to describe the " technocratic corps " working in the World Trade Center .In March 2005 the University of Colorado began investigating allegations that Churchill had engaged in research misconduct ; it reported in June 2006 that he had done so . Churchill was fired on July 24 , 2007 , leading to a claim by some scholars that he was fired because of the " Little Eichmanns " comment . Churchill filed a lawsuit against the University of Colorado for unlawful termination of employment . In April 2009 a Denver jury found that Churchill was wrongly fired , awarding him $ 1 in damages . In July 2009 , a District Court judge vacated the monetary award and declined Churchill 's request to order his reinstatement , deciding the university has " quasi @-@ judicial immunity " . In February 2010 , Churchill appealed the judge 's decision . In November 2010 , the Colorado Court of Appeals upheld the lower @-@ court 's ruling . In September 10 , 2012 , the Colorado Supreme Court upheld the lower courts ' decisions in favor of the University of Colorado . On April 1 , 2013 , the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the case .In a February 2014 interview , Churchill commented that after living more than forty years in the northern plains / Colorado region , he had relocated to Atlanta , Georgia in 2013 . Churchill also stated that he had a half @-@ dozen uncompleted books which he intended to finish and publish in the next three years .