US 2 enters Michigan from Wisconsin for the first time north of downtown Hurley , Wisconsin , and Ironwood , Michigan , over the state line that runs along the Montreal River . The highway crosses the river into Gogebic County and passes a welcome center on the way into a commercial district north of downtown . Running along Cloverland Drive , US 2 meets its only business route in Michigan at Douglas Boulevard . The business route was previously a full loop that ran west through downtown Ironwood and crossed the border into Hurley and back to the main highway . The Wisconsin Department of Transportation has removed the signage on their side of the border , which reduced the loop to a business spur that ends at the state line . US 2 continues eastward through UP woodlands to the city of Bessemer . While bypassing the community of Ramsay , the highway crosses a branch of the Black River . The roadway enters Wakefield on the south side of Sunday Lake , meeting M ‑ 28 at a stoplight in town . As the US Highway leaves Wakefield , it turns southeasterly through the Ottawa National Forest , crossing Jackson Creek and two branches of the Presque Isle River . US 2 and M ‑ 64 merge and run concurrently over the second branch of the Presque Isle in the community of Marenisco . This concurrency has the lowest traffic volume along the entire length of the highway within the state ; in 2010 the Michigan Department of Transportation ( MDOT ) recorded a daily average usage along the stretch of 770 vehicles , compared to the overall average of 5 @,@ 188 vehicles for the highway . At the end of the concurrency , M ‑ 64 turns northerly to run along Lake Gogebic .The highway continues parallel to the state line from the Marensico area through the national forest toward Watersmeet . That unincorporated community is the home of the Watersmeet High School Nimrods , the basketball team featured on a series of ESPN commercials and a documentary series on the Sundance Channel . The area is also where the waters meet ; the rolling hills drain to Lake Superior via the Ontonagon River , to Lake Michigan via the Brule and Menominee rivers , or to the Gulf of Mexico via the Wisconsin and Mississippi rivers . Also located in the area are the Sylvania Wilderness , and the Lac Vieux Desert Indian Reservation , which includes the Lac Vieux Desert Casino and Resort . The highway travels southeasterly from Watersmeet around the many lakes and streams in the area and crosses into rural Iron County . US 2 intersects Federal Forest Highway 16 ( FFH 16 ) near Golden Lake in Stambaugh Township in the middle of the national forest . The trunkline then runs along the Iron River as it approaches the city of the same name and meets M ‑ 73 . In town , US 2 intersects M ‑ 189 before crossing the river and turning northeast out of the city .US 2 leaves the Ottawa National Forest at Iron River , and the highway continues eastward through forest lands near several small lakes to Crystal Falls , the county seat of Iron County . On the west side of town , US 2 meets US 141 ; the two highways run concurrently along Crystal Avenue . The combined highway turns south onto 5th Street and meets M ‑ 69 's eastern terminus at the intersection between 5th Street and Superior Avenue next to the county courthouse at the top of the hill . US 2 / US 141 runs south out of Crystal Falls to the west of , and parallel to , the Paint River . The roadway passes Railroad , Kennedy and Stager lakes and leaves the state of Michigan at the Brule River , crossing into Florence County , Wisconsin for about 14 miles ( 23 km ) .