The coasts around Papa Stour have claimed numerous wrecks . In Hamnavoe , Tiptans Skerry alone has sunk Dutch , French , German and Norwegian ships .The Aberdeen trawler Ben Doran A178 , foundered on the Ve Skerries 3 miles northwest of Papa Stour , on the evening of 28 March 1930 while on her way to the village of Scalloway to land her catch . When she grounded weather conditions were fairly good but it was not until the following day that a passing trawler saw , and reported the wreck . By the time that various rescue attempts were launched by the coastguard and local volunteers ( there being no lifeboat in Shetland at that time ) , weather conditions had deteriorated to the point where it was impossible to approach the skerries . A request had been made for the Stromness lifeboat from Orkney , only 120 miles away , to launch , but the request was made too late to be of help . All 9 crew perished in the wreck . Only 3 bodies were recovered , that of James Mitchell , which was returned to Aberdeen , and the bodies of J. Cormack and J.R. Insh , which were buried in Scalloway .The cargo ship SS Highcliffe ran aground in fog on Forewick Holm in February 1940 . On this occasion the conditions were clement and only the ship and cargo were lost . In 1967 the Aberdeen trawler Juniper ran aground in Lyra Sound at the bottom of the 60 metres ( 200 feet ) cliffs . The 12 man crew were rescued by the Aith lifeboat , the coxswain being awarded the RNLI silver medal for this rescue .Papa Stour 's most recent shipwreck occurred on 9 December 1977 when the Aberdeen trawler Elinor Viking A278 , skipper Alec Flett , foundered on the Ve Skerries . The Aith Lifeboat came to the scene but was unable to get near enough to rescue the crew because of the sea conditions . At the request of Alec Webster , Coastguard Station Officer , Lerwick , a volunteer crew in a British Airways Sikorsky S61N helicopter from Sumburgh Airport was scrambled . They managed to winch all the boat 's crew to safety within hours of the grounding , despite the storm force winds . The helicopter crew later received a number of awards for bravery . There was no loss of life , but this incident prompted the building of a lighthouse on the skerries in 1979 , and may also have been the example required for the formation of the present Search and Rescue helicopter unit , based at Sumburgh Airport .