The side entered 1889 having played 36 matches for 22 wins and three draws . The Natives ' play had improved throughout November and December following poorer form in their October matches ; positive press reports reflected this improvement . The team would go on to play a further 17 matches before their 16 February international against England . January started with a 4 – 1 loss to Bradford , during which 25 police officers were required to keep many of the 12 @,@ 000 spectators , many of them non @-@ paying , in order . This was followed by victories over Leeds Parish Church , Kirkstall , Brighouse Rangers , and Huddersfield . Following further matches against Stockport , Castleford , and Warrington , where the team drew , lost , then won , the side faced Yorkshire for a second time .Yorkshire had been criticised in the press for fielding a weakened line @-@ up against the Natives when the sides first met in December . After the unexpected loss , Yorkshire were determined to make amends and a strong side was selected for the county , including Fred Bonsor , Richard Lockwood and John Willie Sutcliffe , all of whom would appear for England against the Natives later that season . Described as " knocked about " and " stale " , the Natives struggled to compete against such strong opposition , and Yorkshire scored three converted tries before a try to Ellison left the scores at 9 – 1 at half @-@ time . The second @-@ half was little better for the Natives ; they conceded a further two tries as well as a drop @-@ goal . The second of these tries was scored by Lockwood after he ran the ball from his own half . Ellison scored a converted try late in the match , but this didn 't prevent the Natives suffering their largest defeat of the tour : 16 – 4 to the Yorkshiremen . Ellison later described the match as " without a murmur , the biggest beating we received in our whole tour " .After a victory over Spen Valley District , the team travelled west to play Somersetshire , Devonshire , Taunton , and Gloucestershire , and won all five games . The victory over Somerset was the New Zealanders ' largest of the tour ; they scored nine tries in a 17 – 4 victory . Half @-@ back Keogh played outstandingly for the Natives , while the entire side demonstrated superior passing and combination to their opposition . Devonshire and Tauton suffered heavy defeats by the New Zealanders , before a strong Gloucestershire side was dismissed . After defeating Midland Counties , the Natives returned to London .The team had two further matches before their international against England . The first was against one of the strongest clubs in England , Blackheath . Andrew Stoddart , who had toured New Zealand and Australia with the 1888 British Isles side , played for the club in their 9 – 3 defeat to the Natives . The New Zealanders won having scored four tries , including two by Keogh . Their next opposition was a United Services side mainly comprising Royal Navy players . The Natives were again victorious , this time 10 – 0 . The match against Oxford University was postponed due to heavy frost , and so the team had a seven @-@ day break from playing – their longest of the tour .