Slammiversary featured seven professional wrestling matches and one pre @-@ show match that involved different wrestlers from pre @-@ existing scripted feuds and storylines . Wrestlers portrayed villains , heroes , or less distinguishable characters in the scripted events that built tension and culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches .The main event at Slammiversary was a King of the Mountain match for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship , in which then @-@ champion Samoa Joe defended the title against four other competitors . On the May 15 episode of Impact ! , Joe announced the encounter would take place at Slammiversary as well that an agreement had been made between Management Director Jim Cornette and himself on who would compete in the bout . The arrangement entailed that qualifying matches would take place leading to the event between four wrestlers he chose and four wrestlers Cornette chose . Cornette 's four wrestlers were James Storm , Matt Morgan , Robert Roode , and Tomko , while Joe 's four were A.J. Styles , Booker T , Christian Cage , and Rhino . The qualifying matches were held on the May 22 and May 29 episodes of Impact ! . Roode defeated Morgan in the first qualifier , while Booker T defeated Styles in the second , both on the May 22 episode of Impact ! . The last two qualification matches were held on the May 29 episode of Impact ! , with Rhino defeating Storm and Cage defeating Tomko . Kevin Nash , who played Joe 's mentor in the storyline , requested to be made the Special Guest Ringside Enforcer for the bout , which he was granted by Cornette on the May 29 episode of Impact ! .The predominate storyline heading into the event was the rivalry between A.J. Styles and Kurt Angle , both members of The Angle Alliance group . On the February 14 episode of Impact ! , TNA held the scripted wedding of Angle 's real @-@ life wife Karen Angle and Styles despite Angle and Karen still being married on @-@ screen . Afterwards , Karen and Angle separated in the storyline on the March 13 episode of Impact ! . TNA continued to build the situation with Angle attempting to reconcile with Karen on the May 15 episode of Impact ! . Karen refused Angle 's request on the May 22 episode of Impact ! , leading to Angle turning on and assaulting Styles later in the episode due to his jealousy of the affection Karen showed for Styles . On the May 29 episode of Impact ! , Cornette announced Angle versus Styles for the event . Angle sustained a severe neck injury in early May with several TNA officials believing Angle would not recover in time to perform at the show . Angle was still in pain a few days prior to Slammiversary but was expected to perform normally despite some officials feeling it was too soon to compete .The TNA World Tag Team Championship was defended at Slammiversary by then @-@ champions The Latin American Xchange ( Hernandez and Homicide ; LAX ) against Team 3D ( Brother Devon and Brother Ray ) . At TNA 's previous PPV event Sacrifice on May 11 , LAX defeated Team 3D in the final round of the Deuces Wild Tag Team Tournament for the vacant TNA World Tag Team Championship . On the May 15 episode of Impact ! , Team 3D attacked and was scripted to injure LAX 's manager Héctor Guerrero , thus starting a rivalry between the two . Cornette announced a rematch from Sacrifice for the championship to take place at the show on the May 29 episode of Impact ! .TNA held a Six Woman Tag Team match pitting The Beautiful People ( Angelina Love and Velvet Sky ) and Mickie Knuckles against Gail Kim , ODB , and Roxxi at Slammiversary . This was the main storyline in TNA 's women 's division which started at Sacrifice where TNA held a Ten Woman TNA Knockouts Makeover Battle Royal to become number @-@ one contender to the TNA Women 's Knockout Championship . The rules of the contest involved the winner getting a championship match while the runner @-@ up had her head shaven . Love cost Roxxi — then known as Roxxi Laveaux — the match , resulting in her head being shaven . Kim won the bout and went on to have her title opportunity on the May 15 episode of Impact ! , which she lost after interference from Love . On the June 5 episode of Impact ! , Knuckles made her TNA debut aligning with The Beautiful People in assaulting Kim , ODB , and Roxxi .