Kawaguchi set the date for his attack on the Lunga perimeter for 12 September and began marching his forces west from Taivu towards Lunga Point on 5 September . He radioed 17th Army and requested that it carry out air strikes on Henderson Field beginning on 9 September , and that naval warships be stationed off Lunga Point on September 12 to " destroy any Americans who attempted to flee from the island . " On 7 September , Kawaguchi issued his attack plan to " rout and annihilate the enemy in the vicinity of the Guadalcanal Island airfield . " Kawaguchi 's plan called for his forces to split into three , approach the Lunga perimeter inland , and launch a surprise night attack . Oka 's force would attack the perimeter from the west while Ichiki 's Second Echelon — renamed the Kuma Battalion — would attack from the east . The main attack would be by Kawaguchi 's " Center Body " , numbering 3 @,@ 000 men in three battalions , from the south of the Lunga perimeter . By 7 September , most of Kawaguchi 's troops had started marching from Taivu towards Lunga Point along the coastline . About 250 Japanese troops remained behind to guard the brigade 's supply base at Taivu .Meanwhile , native island scouts — directed by British government official and officer in the British Solomon Islands Protectorate Defence Force , Martin Clemens — told the Marines of Japanese troops at Taivu , near the village of Tasimboko , about 17 mi ( 27 km ) east of Lunga . Edson launched a raid against the Japanese troops at Taivu . Destroyer transports USS McKean and Manley and two patrol boats took 813 of Edson 's men to Taivu in two trips . Edson and his first wave of 501 troops landed at Taivu at 05 : 20 ( local time ) on 8 September . Supported by aircraft from Henderson Field and gunfire from the destroyer transports , Edson 's men advanced towards Tasimboko village but were slowed by Japanese resistance . At 11 : 00 , the rest of Edson 's men landed . With this reinforcement and more support from the Henderson Field aircraft , Edson 's force pushed into the village . The Japanese defenders , believing a major landing was underway after observing the concurrent approach of an Allied supply ship convoy heading towards Lunga Point , retreated into the jungle , leaving behind 27 dead . Two Marines were killed .In Tasimboko , Edson 's troops discovered the supply base for Kawaguchi 's forces , including large stockpiles of food , ammunition and medical supplies , and a shortwave radio . The Marines seized documents , equipment and food supplies , destroyed the rest , and returned to the Lunga perimeter at 17 : 30 . The quantities of supplies and intelligence from the captured documents revealed that at least 3 @,@ 000 Japanese troops were on the island and apparently planning an attack .Edson and Colonel Gerald Thomas , Vandegrift 's operations officer , believed that the Japanese attack would come at the Lunga Ridge , a narrow , grassy , 1 @,@ 000 m ( 1 @,@ 100 yd ) long , coral ridge ( 9 ° 26 ′ 39 ″ S 160 ° 2 ′ 50 ″ E ) parallel to the Lunga River just south of Henderson Field . The ridge offered a natural avenue of approach to the airfield , commanded the surrounding area and was almost undefended . Edson and Thomas tried to persuade Vandegrift to move forces to defend the ridge , but Vandegrift refused , believing that the Japanese were more likely to attack along the coast . Finally , Thomas convinced Vandegrift that the ridge was a good location for Edson 's Raiders to " rest " from their actions of the preceding month . On 11 September , the 840 men of Edson 's unit — including the 1st Raiders and the Paramarines — deployed onto and around the ridge and prepared to defend it .Kawaguchi 's Center Body of troops was planning to attack the Lunga perimeter at the ridge , which they called " the centipede " ( mukade gata ) because of its shape . On 9 September , Kawaguchi 's troops left the coast at Koli Point . Split into four columns , they marched into the jungle towards their predesignated attack points south and southeast of the airfield . Lack of good maps , at least one faulty compass , and thick , almost impenetrable jungle caused the Japanese columns to proceed slowly and zigzag , costing a lot of time . At the same time , Oka 's troops approached the Lunga perimeter from the west . Oka had some intelligence on the Marine defenses , extracted from a U.S. Army pilot captured on 30 August .During the day of 12 September , Kawaguchi 's troops struggled through the jungle toward their assembly points for that night 's attacks . Kawaguchi wanted his three Center Body battalions in place by 14 : 00 , but they did not reach their assembly areas until after 22 : 00 . Oka was also delayed in his advance towards the Marine lines in the west . Only the Kuma battalion reported that they were in place on time . Despite the problems in reaching the planned attack positions , Kawaguchi was still confident in his attack plan because a captured U.S. pilot disclosed that the ridge was the weakest part of the Marine defenses . Japanese bombers attacked the ridge during daytime on 11 – 12 September , causing a few casualties , including two killed .