The Commonwealth of Australia came into existence on 1 January 1901 as a result of the federation of the Australian colonies . Under the Constitution of Australia , defence responsibility was now vested in the new federal government . The co @-@ ordination of Australia @-@ wide defensive efforts in the face of Imperial German interest in the Pacific Ocean was one of driving forces behind federalism , and the Department of Defence immediately came into being as a result , while the Commonwealth Military Forces ( early forerunner of the Australian Army ) and Commonwealth Naval Force were also soon established .The Australian Commonwealth Military Forces came into being on 1 March 1901 and all the colonial forces — including those still in South Africa — became part of the new force . 28 @,@ 923 colonial soldiers , including 1 @,@ 457 professional soldiers , 18 @,@ 603 paid militia and 8 @,@ 863 unpaid volunteers , were subsequently transferred . The individual units continued to be administered under the various colonial Acts until the Defence Act 1903 brought all the units under one piece of legislation . This Act also prevented the raising of standing infantry units and specified that militia forces could not be used in industrial disputes or serve outside Australia . However , the majority of soldiers remained in militia units , known as the Citizen Military Forces ( CMF ) . Major General Sir Edward Hutton — a former commander of the New South Wales Military Forces — subsequently became the first commander of the Commonwealth Military Forces on 26 December and set to work devising an integrated structure for the new army . In 1911 , following a report by Lord Kitchener the Royal Military College , Duntroon was established , as was a system of universal National Service .Prior to federation each self @-@ governing colony had operated its own naval force . These navies were small and lacked blue water capabilities , forcing the separate colonies to subsidise the cost of a British naval squadron in their waters for decades . The colonies maintained control over their respective navies until 1 March 1901 , when the Commonwealth Naval Force was created . This new force also lacked blue water capable ships , and ultimately did not lead to a change in Australian naval policy . In 1907 Prime Minister Alfred Deakin and Creswell , while attending the Imperial Conference in London , sought the British Government 's agreement to end the subsidy system and develop an Australian navy . The Admiralty rejected and resented the challenge , but suggested diplomatically that a small fleet of destroyers and submarines would be sufficient . Deakin was unimpressed , and in 1908 invited the American Great White Fleet to visit Australia . This visit fired public enthusiasm for a modern navy and in part led to the order of two 700 @-@ ton River @-@ class destroyers . The surge in German naval construction prompted the Admiralty to change their position however and the Royal Australian Navy was subsequently formed in 1911 , absorbing the Commonwealth Naval Force . On 4 October 1913 , the new fleet steamed through Sydney Heads , consisting of the battlecruiser HMAS Australia , three light cruisers , and three destroyers , while several other ships were still under construction . And as a consequence the navy entered the First World War as a formidable force .The Australian Flying Corps ( AFC ) was established as part of the Commonwealth Military Forces in 1912 , prior to the formation of the Australian Military Forces in 1916 and was later separated in 1921 to form the Royal Australian Air Force , making it the second oldest air force in the world . Regardless , the service branches were not linked by a single chain of command however , and each reported to their own minister and had separate administrative arrangements and government departments .