From 1788 until 1870 the defence of the Australian colonies was mostly provided by British Army regular forces . Originally Marines protected the early settlements at Sydney Cove and Norfolk Island , however they were relieved of these duties in 1790 by a British Army unit specifically recruited for colonial service , known as the New South Wales Corps . The New South Wales Corps subsequently was involved in putting down a rebellion of Irish convicts at Castle Hill in 1804 . Soon however shortcomings in the corps convinced the War Office of the need for a more reliable garrison in New South Wales and Van Diemen 's Land . Chief of these shortcomings was the Rum Rebellion , a coup mounted by its officers in 1808 . As a result , in January 1810 the 73rd ( Perthshire ) Regiment of Foot arrived in Australia . By 1870 , 25 British infantry regiments had served in Australia , as had a small number of artillery and engineer units .Although the primary role of the British Army was to protect the colonies against external attack , no actual threat ever materialised . The British Army was instead used in policing , guarding convicts at penal institutions , combating bushranging , putting down convict rebellions — as occurred at Bathurst in 1830 — and to suppress Aboriginal resistance to the extension of European settlement . Notably British soldiers were involved in the battle at the Eureka Stockade in 1854 on the Victorian goldfields . Members of British regiments stationed in Australia also saw action in India , Afghanistan , New Zealand and the Sudan .During the early years of settlement the naval defence of Australia was provided by detached Royal Navy units of the East Indies Station , based in Sydney . However , in 1859 Australia was established as a separate squadron under the command of a commodore , marking the first occasion that Royal Navy ships had been permanently stationed in Australia . The Royal Navy remained the primary naval force in Australian waters until 1913 , when the Australia Station ceased and responsibility handed over to the Royal Australian Navy ; the Royal Navy 's depots , dockyards and structures were given to the Australian people .