In 1978 , Churchill began working at the University of Colorado Boulder as an affirmative action officer in the university administration . He also lectured on American Indian issues in the ethnic studies program . In 1990 , the University of Colorado hired him as an associate professor , although he did not possess the academic doctorate usually required for the position . The following year he was granted tenure in the Communications department , without the usual six @-@ year probationary period , after having been declined by the Sociology and Political Science departments .He has long been interested in issues associated with the Dawes Act , which broke up the communal reservation lands and assigned plots to individual households . Connected with that was the federal government 's first use of " blood quantum " to define individual membership in tribes , for what became known as the Dawes Rolls . Since re @-@ establishing self @-@ governments , federally recognized tribes have established their own criteria for enrollment as members , often related to descent from recognized historical lists , but less often requiring proofs of blood quantum . Some of his published works address these issues , which he has interpreted as part of the federal government 's policy of genocide against Native Americans .In 1995 Churchill discussed his views with David Barsamian in an interview :You could say that five hundred years ago was the basis of blood quantum in Ibero @-@ America . But in Anglo @-@ America , while there was some preoccupation with it , it was not formalized until the passage of the General Allotment Act , mid @-@ 1880s . At that point they began to define Indian as being someone who was demonstrably and documentably of at least one @-@ quarter by quantum blood indigenous in a given group . You couldn 't be an eighth Cheyenne and an eighth Arapaho and be an Indian . You had to be a quarter Cheyenne or a quarter Arapaho or hopefully a quarter and a quarter . The reason for this was quite clear . They were identifying Indians for purposes of allotting them individual parcels of land in the existing reservation base at that point . If they ran out of Indians identifiable as such , then the rest of the land would be declared surplus . So it was clearly in the interests of the government to create a definition of Indianness that would minimize the number of Indians that were available . It was an economic motivation for the application of this genetic criteria to Indianness in the first place . It 's become increasingly so ever since . " ( David Barsamian ( December 1995 ) . " Interview with Ward Churchill : Historical and Current Perspectives " . Z Magazine . )In 1996 , Churchill moved to the new Ethnic Studies Department of the University of Colorado . In 1997 , he was promoted to full professor . He was selected as chairman of the department in June 2002 .In January 2005 , during the controversy over his 9 / 11 remarks , Churchill resigned as chairman of the ethnic studies department at the University of Colorado — his term as chair was scheduled to expire in June of that year . On May 16 , 2006 , the Investigative Committee of the Standing Committee on Research Misconduct at the University of Colorado concluded that Churchill had committed multiple counts of academic misconduct , specifically plagiarism , fabrication , and falsification . On July 24 , 2007 , Churchill was fired for academic misconduct in an eight to one vote by the University of Colorado 's Board of Regents .