While there have been calls for Scientology to be banned , the Church of Scientology remains legal in Germany and is allowed to operate there . Its precise legal status however is unresolved . Two points are contested : first , whether or not the teachings of Scientology qualify as a " religion or worldview " ( Religion or Weltanschauung ; these are equal before German law ) , and secondly , whether or not these teachings are only used as a pretext for purely commercial activity ; if the latter were the case , this would most likely imply that Scientology would not qualify for protection as a " religious or worldview community " ( Religions- oder Weltanschauungsgemeinschaft ) under Article 4 of the German constitution , which guarantees the freedom of belief , religion and worldview . Status as a " religious or worldview community " also affects a broad range of other issues in Germany , such as taxation and freedom of association .The Federal Court of Justice of Germany has not yet made an explicit decision on the matter , but implicitly assumed in 1980 that Scientology represented a religious or worldview community . The Upper Administrative Court in Hamburg explicitly asserted in 1994 that Scientology should be viewed as a worldview community . In 1995 , the Federal Labor Court of Germany decided that the Church of Scientology merely pursued commercial aims and did not represent a religious or worldview community entitled to protection under Article 4 of the German Constitution , although another decision by the same court left the question open again in 2003 . In another 2003 decision , the Administrative Court of Baden @-@ Württemberg in Mannheim said there were no indications that the teachings of Scientology merely served as a pretext for commercial activity . In 2005 , the Federal Administrative Court of Germany explicitly granted a Scientologist protection under Article 4 @.@ 1 of the German Constitution , which declares the freedom of religion and worldview inviolate .Many courts have declined to assess the religious status of Scientology , finding that the question was irrelevant to deciding the case at hand . The Federal Administrative Court for example ruled in 1997 that the question whether or not Scientology was a religion was irrelevant , and that its legal status should be judged by its business activities . The German government does not consider the Church of Scientology to be a religious or worldview community and asserts that Scientology is a profit @-@ making enterprise , rather than a religion . Recent years have seen a number of court decisions in Scientology 's favour , despite the very widespread negative attitude to Scientology among politicians and the general public .