Until the 1970s , Australia 's military strategy centred on the concept of Forward Defence , in which the role of Australian military and naval forces were to co @-@ operate with Allied forces to counter threats in Australia 's region . Following the adoption of the Guam Doctrine by the United States in 1969 , and the British withdrawal ' east of Suez ' in the early 1970s , Australia developed a defence policy emphasising self @-@ reliance and the defence of the Australian continent . Known as the Defence of Australia Policy , it focused Australian defence planning on protecting the nation 's northern maritime approaches ( the ' air @-@ sea gap ' ) against possible attack .In line with this goal , the ADF was restructured to increase its ability to strike at enemy forces from Australian bases and to counter raids on continental Australia . This was achieved by increasing the capabilities of the RAN and RAAF , and relocating regular Army units to Northern Australia . During this time the ADF had no military units on operational deployment outside Australia . However , in 1987 the ADF made its first operational deployment as part of Operation Morris Dance , in which several warships and a rifle company deployed to the waters off Fiji in response to the 1987 Fijian coups d 'état . While broadly successful , this deployment highlighted the need for the ADF to improve its capability to rapidly respond to unforeseen events .During this period Australia continued to retain forces in Malaysia as part of the Five Power Defence Arrangements ( FPDA ) agreed in 1971 to defend it in the event of external attack , with this commitment initially including significant air , ground and naval forces . However , these forces were gradually reduced with the infantry battalion withdrawn from Singapore in 1973 , and the two Mirage fighter squadrons in 1988 . Since then a detachment of Orion maritime patrol aircraft , support personnel , and an infantry company known as Rifle Company Butterworth have been maintained , as well as occasional deployments of F / A @-@ 18 Hornet fighter aircraft . Australian submarines were reportedly also involved in a number of clandestine surveillance missions throughout Asian waters in the last decades of the Cold War . Airforce and Navy units were also involved in tracking Soviet ship and submarine movements in the region . Since then the Orions have continued to participate in maritime security operations as part of Operation Gateway , conducting patrols over the Indian Ocean , Strait of Malacca and South China Sea . They have reportedly also been involved in freedom of navigation flights .