Ayola began her career in the theatre , performing in a number of Shakespearean plays including Twelfth Night , A Midsummer Night 's Dream , The Tempest , The Merchant of Venice and Macbeth . She states of this : " Shakespeare keeps coming my way . I love the fact that I get to play people who are much more articulate than I 'll ever be " . Ayola has performed in Twelfth Night in the lead roles of both Olivia and Viola . She explains : " The role of Viola didn 't sit that well with me for some reason but Olivia makes more sense . " She has also appeared in modern performances , assuming the title role of Dido , Queen of Carthage at the Globe Theatre in London in 2003 , which she described as " a dream of a part " . She has deemed her dream role to be that of Isabella in Measure for Measure , as she once lost out on the part and would like to prove herself capable of playing it .Ayola 's first film appearance was in the 1993 film Great Moments in Aviation , written by Jeanette Winterson , in which she starred alongside Jonathan Pryce and John Hurt . Variety magazine 's David Rooney said of her performance : " In the film 's most naturalistic turn , Ayola is a constant pleasure to watch . Unforced and appealing , she often succeeds in pulling the fanciful fireworks momentarily back down to Earth . " Ayola recalls having been daunted at the prospect of working alongside so many established names , but has deemed it to have been a " wonderful experience " . Her subsequent film credits are romantic comedy The Secret Laughter of Women , set in Nigeria and starring Colin Firth , thriller The i Inside , filmed in Sully Hospital , Cardiff , and starring Ryan Phillippe , and Sahara , filmed in Morocco whilst Ayola was pregnant with her first child , starring Penélope Cruz . Ayola says of her film career : " I really like doing film [ but ] I 've not done enough big films though to really know the difference between film and television . "Ayola 's first prolific television role was in the ITV drama Soldier Soldier , in which she starred throughout its third series in 1993 as soldier 's wife Bernie Roberts . Ayola credits her chemistry with co @-@ star Akim Mogaji , who played her on @-@ screen husband Luke Roberts , for winning her her audition . She went on to appear in Gone With the Wind sequel Scarlett , and star in Welsh soap opera Tiger Bay . She has spoken critically of the way the BBC treated the soap , moving it around the schedules and declining to commission a second series . She acted alongside Pauline Quirke in both Maisie Raine and Being April , deeming Quirke to be a " fantastic " actress , and one she would work alongside again " like a shot " . In 1996 , Ayola appeared at the National Theatre in Helen Edmundson 's adaptation of Leo Tolstoy 's War and Peace . In 2001 , she became a presenter of the BBC Wales arts programme Double Yellow , alongside poet Owen Sheers and performance artist Mark Rees . She posed nude but for a pair of yellow rubber gloves to promote the show 's launch , and was highly critical of the BBC when the show was cancelled midway through its second series . She has since concluded that " the kind of audience they would like to bring in with shows like Double Yellow aren 't really into watching TV " , but at the time was outspoken against the show 's cancellation , stating :Ayola 's other notable television appearances include the BBC psychological thriller Green @-@ Eyed Monster ( 2001 ) , soap opera EastEnders ( 2001 ) , Waking the Dead ( 2001 ) , London 's Burning ( 2001 ) , Offenders ( 2002 ) , Murder in Mind ( 2003 ) , The Canterbury Tales ( 2003 ) and Sea of Souls ( 2004 ) . In 2008 , she starred in the Doctor Who episode " Midnight " , playing an intergalactic Hostess alongside David Tennant 's Tenth Doctor . In 2009 , Ayola starred in the CBBC musical comedy My Almost Famous Family . She stated : " The script made me laugh out loud when I read it . [ ... ] I also like the fact that there were a lot of politically @-@ correct boxes being ticked , but the writers and producer haven 't been restrained by that . " So , instead of bowing to this altar , they 've said , ' Okay , we have this family that 's half @-@ black , half @-@ white , half @-@ American , half @-@ British . We have a mix of boys and girls , one character who 's mixed @-@ raced and deaf – but we 're not going to be restrained by any of that . We 're not going to tiptoe around Martha 's disability or anything . ' I liked that . It wasn 't some sort of reverential hands @-@ off approach to what we 're presenting . " She has also been cast in the film Dredd .