The controversy attracted increased academic attention to Churchill 's research , which had already been criticized by the legal scholar John LaVelle and historian Guenter Lewy . Additional critics were the sociologist Thomas Brown , who had been preparing an article on Churchill 's work , and the historians R.G. Robertson and Russell Thornton , who claimed that Churchill had misrepresented their work . In 2005 , University of Colorado Boulder administrators ordered an investigation into seven allegations of research misconduct , including three allegations of plagiarism , and four allegations of fabrication or falsification regarding the history of the Dawes Act , the Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1990 , and statements that smallpox was intentionally spread to Native Americans by John Smith in 1614 and by the United States Army at Fort Clark in 1837 ( not to be confused with the well @-@ documented use of smallpox @-@ infected blankets at Fort Pitt in 1764 ) .On May 16 , 2006 the University released their findings ; the Investigative Committee agreed unanimously that Churchill had engaged in " serious research misconduct " , including falsification , fabrication , and two of the three allegations of plagiarism . The committee was divided on the appropriate level of sanctions . The Standing Committee on Research Misconduct accepted the findings of the Investigative Committee but also disagreed on what sanctions should be imposed . Churchill 's appeal against his proposed dismissal was considered by a panel of the University 's Privilege and Tenure Committee , which found that two of the seven findings of misconduct did not constitute dismissible offences . Three members recommended that the penalty should be demotion and one year 's suspension without pay , while two favored dismissal .On July 24 , 2007 , the University regents voted seven to two to uphold all seven of the findings of research misconduct , overruling the recommendation of Privilege and Tenure panel that two be dismissed . By a vote of eight to one , the regents determined to fire Churchill .The next day , Churchill filed a lawsuit in state court claiming that the firing was retribution for his expressing politically unpopular views . The jury in Churchill 's suit for reinstatement weighed the university 's claims of academic misconduct per jury instructions it received in the case . As Stanley Fish said , " It was the jury ’ s task to determine whether Churchill ’ s dismissal would have occurred independently of the adverse political response to his constitutionally protected statements . " The jury found that the alleged misconduct would not have led to Churchill 's firing and rejected the university 's academic misconduct claim as the grounds for dismissal . On April 1 , 2009 , a Colorado jury found that Churchill had been wrongly fired , and awarded $ 1 in damages . As one of the jurors said later in a press interview , " it wasn 't a slap in his face or anything like that when we didn 't give him any money . It 's just that [ Churchill 's attorney ] David Lane kept saying this wasn 't about the money , and in the end , we took his word for that . " Churchill 's counsel asked Chief Judge Larry J. Naves of the Denver District Court to order reinstatement in light of the verdict .On July 7 , 2009 , Judge Naves found that the defendants ( university ) were entitled to quasi @-@ judicial immunity as a matter of law , vacated the jury verdict and determined that the University did not owe Churchill any financial compensation . Naves denied Churchill 's request for reinstatement at CU .Churchill appealed both decisions . On November 24 , 2010 , a three @-@ judge panel of the Colorado Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court 's decision . In February 2011 , Churchill filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the Colorado Supreme Court . In late May 2011 , the Colorado Supreme Court agreed to hear his case . Court records indicate that oral arguments began June 7 , 2012 . On September 10 , 2012 , the court ruled that the University had " quasi @-@ judicial immunity " , upholding the trial court 's ruling . On April 1 , 2013 , the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal from Churchill .