Previously inhabited by the Choctaw Native Americans , the area now called Meridian was obtained by the United States under the terms of the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek in 1830 during the period of Indian Removal . After the treaty was ratified , European @-@ American settlers began to move into the area .After receiving a federal land grant of about 2 @,@ 000 acres ( 810 ha ) , Richard McLemore , the first settler of Meridian , began offering free land to newcomers to attract more settlers to the region and develop the area . Most of McLemore 's land was bought in 1853 by Lewis A. Ragsdale , a lawyer from Alabama . John T. Ball , a merchant from Kemper County , bought the remaining 80 acres ( 0 @.@ 32 km2 ) . Ragsdale and Ball , now known as the founders of the city , began laying out lots for new development on their respective land sections .There was much competition over the proposed name of the settlement . Ball and the more industrial residents of the city supported the name " Meridian , " believing the term to be synonymous with " junction " ; the more agrarian residents of the city preferred " Sowashee " ( meaning " mad river " in a Native American language ) , from the name of a nearby creek ; and Ragsdale proposed " Ragsdale City . " Ball erected a station house on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad – the sign on which would alternate between " Meridian " and " Sowashee " each day . Eventually the continued development of the railroads led to an influx of railroad workers who overruled the others in the city and left " Meridian " on the station permanently . The town was officially incorporated as Meridian on February 10 , 1860 .Meridian was a small village at the start of the American Civil War in 1861 . Its strategic position at the railroad junction led to the Confederate construction of several military installations to support the war . During the Battle of Meridian in 1864 , General William Tecumseh Sherman led troops into the city , destroying the railroads in every direction , as well as an arsenal and immense storehouses ; his forces burned much of the buildings to the ground . Sherman is reported to have said afterwards , " Meridian , with its depots , store @-@ houses , arsenal , hospitals , offices , hotels , and cantonments no longer exists . " Despite the destruction , the railroad lines in the city were rapidly repaired , back in operation 26 working days after the battle . Race relations remained tense during the Reconstruction era , with the riot of 1871 following a fire that damaged many businesses .The town boomed in the aftermath of the Civil War , and experienced its " Golden Age " from 1880 to 1910 . The railroads in the area provided for a means of transportation and an influx of industries , which caused a population boom . As the population rose , commercial activity increased in the downtown area . Between 1890 and 1930 , Meridian was the largest city in Mississippi and a leading center for manufacturing in the South . Many of the city 's historic buildings were built during and just after this era , including the Grand Opera House in 1890 , the Wechsler School in 1894 , two Carnegie libraries in 1913 , and the Threefoot Building , Meridian 's tallest skyscraper , in 1929 .The city continued to grow thanks to a commission government 's efforts to bring in 90 new industrial plants in 1913 and a booming automobile industry in the 1920s . Even through the stock market crash of 1929 and the following Great Depression , the city continued to attract new businesses . With escapism becoming popular in the culture during the depth of the Depression , the S. H. Kress & Co. building , built to " provide luxury to the common man , " opened in downtown Meridian , as did the Temple Theater , which was used as a movie house . The federal courthouse was built in 1933 as a WPA project .After a brief slowdown of the economy at the end of the Depression , the country entered World War II , which renewed the importance of railroads . The rails were essential to transport gasoline and scrap metal to build military vehicles , so Meridian became the region 's rail center again . This renewed prosperity continued until the 1950s , when the automobile and Interstate Highway System became more popular than passenger rails . The decline of the railroad industry caused significant job losses , resulting in a population decline as workers left for other areas .During the American Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s , Meridian was home to a Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) office and several other activist organizations . James Chaney and other local residents , along with Michael Schwerner , his wife Rita , and Andrew Goodman , volunteers from the North , worked to create a community center , holding classes to help prepare African Americans in the area to regain the power to vote . Whites in the area resented the activism , and racial tension often resulted in violence . In June 1964 , Chaney , Schwerner , and Goodman went to Neshoba County , Mississippi , to meet with members of a black church that had been bombed and burned . The three disappeared that night on their way back to Meridian . Following a massive FBI investigation , their murdered bodies were found two months later , buried in an earthen dam .Seven Klansmen , including a deputy sheriff , were convicted in the federal courthouse in Meridian of " depriving the victims of their civil rights " and three were acquitted in the Mississippi civil rights workers murders trial . It was the first time that a white jury had convicted " a white official in a civil rights killing . " In 2005 , the case was reopened by the state , which brought charges in the case for the first time . Edgar Ray Killen was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to 60 years in prison . Meridian later honored Chaney by renaming a portion of 49th Avenue after him and holding an annual memorial service .Starting in the 1960s and following the construction of highways that made commuting easier , residents began to move away from downtown in favor of new housing subdivisions to the north . After strip commercial interests began to move downtown , the city worked to designate several areas as historic districts in the 1970s and 80s to preserve the architectural character of the city . The Meridian Historic Districts and Landmarks Commission was created in 1979 , and the Meridian Main Street program was founded in 1985 .Meridian Main Street organized several projects to revitalize downtown , including the construction of a new Amtrak Station in 1997 based on the design of the historic train station used during Meridian 's Golden Age ; it had been demolished . Other projects included the renovation of the Rosenbaum Building in 2001 and Weidmann 's Restaurant in 2002 , as well as support for integrated urban design . Meridian Main Street , along with The Riley Foundation , helped renovate and adapt the historic Grand Opera House in 2006 for use as the " Mississippi State University Riley Center for Education and the Performing Arts . "After ownership of the Meridian Main Street was transferred to the Alliance for Downtown Meridian in late 2007 , the two organizations , along with the Meridian Downtown Association , spearheaded the downtown revitalization effort . The Alliance serves as an umbrella organization , allowing the other two organizations to use the its support staff and housing , and in turn the Alliance serves as a liaison between the organizations . Plans were underway to renovate the Threefoot Building , but newly elected Mayor Cheri Barry killed the plans in early 2010 . Today , the Alliance helps to promote further development and restoration downtown ; its goal is to assist businesses such as specialty shops , restaurants , and bars because these help downtown become more active during the day and at night . The Meridian Downtown Association is primarily focused on increasing foot traffic downtown by organizing special events , and the Meridian Main Street program supports existing businesses downtown .