Route 29 begins at a modified cloverleaf interchange with Interstate 195 and Interstate 295 in Hamilton Township , and it serves as the western continuation of Interstate 195 , heading to the northwest as a six @-@ lane freeway . The route interchanges with Route 129 , a spur of Route 29 which connects to U.S. Route 1 , at a partial interchange with a northbound exit and southbound entrance . Route 29 narrows to four lanes past this interchange and crosses into Trenton . The route comes to a southbound exit and entrance for Lamberton Road . At this point , Route 29 becomes the Delaware River Scenic Byway , a state scenic byway that was also designated a National Scenic Byway in 2009 . Route 29 runs along the bank of the Delaware River and enters a truck @-@ restricted tunnel that passes by historic houses and Riverview Cemetery . Within this tunnel , Route 29 features a southbound exit and northbound entrance for Lalor Street . The route emerges from the tunnel as the John Fitch Parkway , passes by Arm & Hammer Park , and comes to a traffic light at Thunder Road / Cass Street where it widens back to six lanes . Route 29 meets South Warren Street at another traffic light . The median widens and it passes under the Morrisville @-@ Trenton Railroad Bridge , which carries the Amtrak Northeast Corridor over the Delaware River .Route 29 passes under the Trenton @-@ Morrisville Toll Bridge , which carries U.S. Route 1 over the Delaware River . Access to U.S. Route 1 southbound is provided by ramps from Route 29 while access to Route 29 from northbound U.S. Route 1 is provided by South Warren Street . Route 29 passes under the Lower Trenton Bridge and the median narrows again . It interchanges with Market Street , which provides access to Route 33 , and then features an interchange which provides access to the New Jersey State House with a northbound exit and southbound entrance . Route 29 crosses the Assunpink Creek and features an interchange which provides access to South Warren Street with exits in both directions but only a northbound entrance . Route 29 continues to a cloverleaf interchange with Calhoun Street ( County Route 653 ) , which provides access to the Calhoun Street Bridge over the Delaware River . Riverside Avenue exits as a frontage road paralleling the northbound lanes of Route 29 before the road features a northbound exit for Hermitage Avenue . Route 29 comes to a partial interchange with Parkside Avenue , with a northbound exit and southbound entrance , and then features a northbound exit for South Eastfield Avenue .The freeway portion of Route 29 ends at the intersection with Lee Avenue and it continues northwest along the Delaware River as a four @-@ lane divided highway . The route meets the southern terminus of County Route 579 ( Sullivan Way ) . The median widens again and then narrows as the route meets the southern terminus of Route 175 , a former alignment of Route 29 that currently serves as a frontage road . Route 29 crosses into Ewing Township and becomes the Daniel Bray Highway . It passes under the West Trenton Railroad Bridge , which carries CSX and SEPTA ’ s West Trenton Line over the Delaware River . Route 29 intersects Route 175 again and then comes to a complex interchange with Interstate 95 , with the ramps within the median of Route 29 , just to the east of the Scudder Falls Bridge .Upon crossing the Delaware and Raritan Canal , Route 29 narrows down to a two @-@ lane undivided road called River Road . It continues along the Delaware River , next to the Delaware and Raritan Canal , which runs between Route 29 and the river . The route intersects the northern terminus of Route 175 . Farther north , Route 29 enters Hopewell Township and continues into a more rural setting shaded with trees . Route 29 heads to Washington Crossing State Park , where it intersects County Route 546 , which heads east on Washington Crossing @-@ Pennington Road , and the approach to the Washington Crossing Bridge , which continues into Pennsylvania as Pennsylvania Route 532 . Route 29 continues north along the Delaware River through Titusville , passing by Washington Crossing State Park .