Pocono Raceway President Joseph Mattioli III convinced Richmond to make the change to stock car racing on the NASCAR circuit . Richmond made his first NASCAR start two months after winning the Indianapolis 500 Rookie of the Year award . He debuted at the Coca @-@ Cola 500 at Pocono on July 27 , 1980 , finishing 12th in a D. K. Ulrich @-@ owned Chevrolet . That season , he competed in five events , with two DNFs ( did not finish ) and three 12th @-@ place finishes . Overall , he finished the 1980 season 41st in points .Richmond raced for three teams in 1981 . He started the season by competing in 15 events for Ulrich . He had his first career top 10 finish , taking sixth place at Talladega Superspeedway , soon followed by a seventh @-@ place finish at Texas World Speedway . After Kennie Childers hired him away from Ulrich mid @-@ season , Richmond had top 10 finishes at Pocono and Bristol . For the final seven races of the season , he drove for Bob Rogers and had a top 10 finish at Dover International Speedway . Overall for the season , Richmond had six top 10 finishes to place 16th in season points .Richmond started 1982 without a ride before getting a one @-@ race deal to drive for Billie Harvey at the Rockingham track . Richmond completed 112 laps of the 492 @-@ lap event to finish 31st , retiring from the race with engine problems . For the following event , Richmond was hired to drive J.D. Stacy 's No. 2 car . In his first race for the team , Richmond earned his first career top 5 finish when he placed fifth at Darlington Raceway . Returning to Pocono , he finished second , before winning his first race on the road course at Riverside , California the following week . Later that season , he earned his first pole position at Bristol . The tour returned to Riverside for the final race of the season where Richmond won his second race , sweeping both events at the track . Benny Parsons said that " watching Richmond go through the Esses was unbelievable " . For the season , Richmond had twelve top 10s , two wins , and one pole to finish 26th in points .In 1983 , Richmond began racing for Raymond Beadle whom he had known before he started racing . He returned to the three @-@ cornered Pocono racetrack , earning his first oval victory . During the season , he accumulated four pole positions ( Darlington , Pocono , Charlotte , and Atlanta ) , one win ( Pocono ) , and fifteen top 10s on his way to finishing tenth in season points . He made his first appearance in a NASCAR Busch Series ( now Nationwide Series ) car , but did not finish any of the three races he entered that season .Esquire magazine named Richmond as one of " the best of the new generation " in 1984 . That year he had one win at North Wilkesboro Speedway and second @-@ place finishes at Dover , Darlington and Riverside . Richmond finished the 1984 season 12th in points , with 11 finishes in the top 10 and in six in the top 5 . In 1985 , the final season that Richmond competed for Beadle , his best finish was a second @-@ place run at Bristol . He ended the season 11th in points with 13 Top 10s in 28 races . In the Busch Series , he qualified at the pole position in the two races he entered , and won the Charlotte race .Richmond joined Hendrick Motorsports in 1986 , where he teamed up with veteran crew chief Harry Hyde . It took the team until the middle of the season to gel . Richmond had suffered a 64 @-@ race winless streak that was finally broken at the Van Scoy Diamond Mine 500 at Pocono in June 1986 . After two straight second @-@ place finishes at Charlotte and Riverside , Richmond started the Pocono event in third place inside the second row . That race saw a caution for rain with five laps left before the halfway point . NASCAR wanted the cars to get to the halfway point to make the race official , so the sanctioning body had the drivers slowly circle the track . It took the drivers 26 minutes to complete the laps , and the rain was so heavy that some drivers had to look out their side windows because they could not see out their windshields . Two hours later , the track had dried and the race resumed with Richmond in third . After Richmond 's car was adjusted to remove the " push " , the car was more to his liking . Because his radio did not work , he was unable to communicate with his crew chief , Hyde , and he made his final pit stop with 37 laps left . Hyde worried that Richmond had stopped a lap too early to ensure that he would have enough fuel to make it to the end . After Richmond took the lead with 30 laps left in the race , Dale Earnhardt made up three seconds on Richmond 's five @-@ second lead . With four laps to go , Buddy Arrington spun in a three @-@ car accident . The remaining laps of the race where completed slowly under caution and Richmond took the checkered flag for the victory . He had led 97 laps , including the final 30 , taking his first victory in a Rick Hendrick car .The tour returned to Pocono a month later , and Richmond battled for another victory in a fog @-@ shortened event . In the final 8 @-@ lap sprint , Richmond competed in a three @-@ car battle with Geoff Bodine and Ricky Rudd . Richmond crossed the finish line beside Rudd , winning the race by 0 @.@ 05 seconds . He notched four more victories that season , and over a span of twelve races , Richmond earned three second @-@ place finishes , and six wins . The National Motorsports Press Association named him Co @-@ Driver of the Year with Earnhardt after Richmond accumulated 13 top 5 finishes and 16 in the top 10 . He had a career @-@ best third @-@ place finish in points after winning seven events in 1986 , in what was his last full NASCAR season .