Two days after their return , the Natives faced Southland , who they defeated 5 – 1 in front of a crowd of 2 @,@ 000 . The side suffered further injury , to Harry Lee , and recruited Southlander W. Hirst for their match against Mataura District on 8 August . Despite playing the match two players down , the Natives comfortably defeated Mataura 16 – 3 . Following the side 's return to New Zealand , the Otago Rugby Football Union demanded that the team 's management explain the accusations levelled at them in Queensland . Eyton responded by insisting that the players had only been suspended while an investigation was conducted , and that the management was confident no wrongdoing had occurred . The Northern Rugby Union ( since renamed Queensland Rugby Union ) summarised the incident and aftermath in the 1889 Queensland Rugby Union Annual :... it was apparent to a judge of the game that something was wrong with the Maori , as they were not showing their usual dash and combination . Four members of the team were suspended , a charge being made against them of attempting the sell the match . The matter was bought before the Otago Union , who passed the following resolution : That , having heard all available evidence regarding the charges against certain members of the Native Team , and having received an explicit denial of charges from the accused members and a satisfactory explanation from the management , we are of opinion that there are no facts before us justifying the allegations ...It is unlikely , given the attitude of the Otago Rugby Union to the Natives before their departure , that they would have dismissed the allegations if incriminating evidence had existed . The side was back to full strength following the return of their suspended players when the side faced Otago in Dunedin . The Natives outscored their opponents five tries to two , and won 11 – 8 . The side 's star player and half @-@ back , Keogh , stayed in Dunedin when the team departed for Christchurch . The side faced Hawke 's Bay , who were touring , in Christchurch , and handily defeated them 13 – 2 . The Natives ' play was praised by The Press : " ... the wearers of the black passed with remarkable accuracy and quickness between their legs , over their shoulders , under their arms and with their feet " . The side then faced Canterbury on 17 August , who they thrashed 15 – 0 . The report published in The Press said of the Natives ' performance :The play showed on Saturday afternoon was a fine exhibition of what several months of combination and practice will do ... it must be admitted they were far and away too good for our local men . In the loose , in the scrum , dribbling , passing , collaring , or running they were very much indeed Canterbury 's superior . Such runs as were made by Warbrick at full back , by Madigan , Gage , and W. Wynyard , the passing of H. Wynyard , F. Warbrick , and all the backs as well as several forwards , the rushes of Alf Warbrick , Maynard , Taare , Taiaroa , and Rene , and the dodging and fending powers of nearly every one , nonplussed their opponents ...The side left Christchurch and travelled north where they played Wairarapa in Masterton . The match was won 10 – 8 , and the next day they faced Wellington , who they also defeated . The fixture against Wellington was nearly abandoned because Scott and the Wellington Rugby Union could not agree on a venue ; the match went ahead only when the Wellington officials agreed to cede the Natives all profit from the match . After this the Natives travelled to Auckland where they played their last match , against the province on 24 August . The match was lost 7 – 2 after each team scored two tries each , but the Aucklanders kicked a drop @-@ goal and a conversion . The loss ended a remarkable run of matches – the Natives had a 31 @-@ game unbeaten streak in rugby matches that started with their victory over Widnes on 9 March ; the side won 30 , and drew one match between the defeats .