Classical composer John Luther Adams is a Meridian native .The Island Def Jam rapper Big K.R.I.T. was born in Meridian . K.R.I.T is known for his many mixtapes and albums such as K.R.I.T. Wuz Here and Cadillactica . He has gained a large following for his lyricism and self @-@ produced beats as well as his ability to change his style on songs from slow and conscious tracks ( " The Vent " ) to fiery and upbeat tracks ( " Mt . Olympus " ) .The guitarist @-@ songwriter George Cummings , born in Meridian in 1938 , was a founding member of Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show .Paul Davis , a singer @-@ songwriter best known for the late 1970s and early 1980s pop hits " I Go Crazy " and " ' 65 Love Affair " , was born in Meridian in 1948 ; after retiring from the music business , he returned to the city where he remained until a fatal heart attack in 2008 .Chris Ethridge ( February 10 , 1947 – April 23 , 2012 ) was an American country rock bass guitarist . He was a member of the International Submarine Band ( ISB ) and The Flying Burrito Brothers , and he co @-@ wrote several songs with Gram Parsons . Ethridge worked with Jackson Browne , Judy Collins , Ry Cooder , Whitney Houston , Willie Nelson , Randy Newman , Linda Ronstadt , Leon Russell , Nancy Sinatra , Johnny Winter , and The Byrds .The singer @-@ songwriter Steve Forbert was born in Meridian in 1954 .Jimmie Rodgers , the " Father of Country Music " , was born in the city in 1897 . The Jimmie Rodgers Museum is located in Meridian , and the Jimmie Rodgers Festival has been an annual Meridian event since 1953 .David Ruffin , former lead singer of The Temptations , and his older brother Jimmy Ruffin were born in the surrounding area , Whynot and Collinsville , respectively .George Soulé , the singer @-@ songwriter most famous for the rhythm and blues anthem " Get Involved " , is a resident of Meridian , where he was born in 1945 .Hayley Williams , lead singer of the band Paramore , was also born in the city in 1988 .Singer Al Wilson , born in June 1939 , was a Meridian native .