A dispute over the terms for the granting of full sovereignty to the self @-@ governing colony of Rhodesia ( or Southern Rhodesia ) led the colonial government , headed by Prime Minister Ian Smith , to unilaterally declare independence from the United Kingdom on 11 November 1965 . The idea of " no independence before majority rule " had recently gained ground in Britain and elsewhere amid decolonisation , and Rhodesia 's government was dominated by the country 's white minority , so the unilateral declaration went unrecognised internationally . Britain and the United Nations imposed economic sanctions on Rhodesia .Two rival communist @-@ backed black nationalist groups initiated military campaigns to overthrow the government and introduce majority rule : the Chinese @-@ aligned Zimbabwe African National Union ( ZANU ) , mostly comprising Shonas , created the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army ( ZANLA ) and adopted aspects of Maoist doctrine , while the Ndebele @-@ dominated Zimbabwe African People 's Union ( ZAPU ) , aligned with Soviet @-@ style Marxism – Leninism and the Warsaw Pact , mobilised the Zimbabwe People 's Revolutionary Army ( ZIPRA ) . These guerrilla armies proceeded to wage what they called the " Second Chimurenga " against the Rhodesian government and security forces . The resulting conflict , the Rhodesian Bush War , began in earnest in December 1972 , when ZANLA attacked Altena and Whistlefield Farms in north @-@ eastern Rhodesia .After the security forces mounted a successful counter @-@ insurgency campaign during 1973 and 1974 , developments overseas caused the conflict 's momentum to shift in the insurgents ' favour . The leftist Carnation Revolution of April 1974 caused Portugal to withdraw its key economic support for Smith 's administration , and led to Mozambique 's independence the following year as a communist state openly allied with ZANU . Around the same time , Rhodesia 's other main backer , South Africa , adopted a détente initiative that forced a ceasefire , giving the guerrillas time to regroup . Following the abortive Victoria Falls Conference of August 1975 , Smith and the ZAPU leader Joshua Nkomo held unsuccessful talks between December 1975 and March 1976 . ZANU and ZAPU announced in October 1976 , during the run @-@ up to the unsuccessful Geneva Conference in December , that they would henceforth attend conferences as a joint " Patriotic Front " .In March 1978 , Smith and non @-@ militant nationalist groups headed by Bishop Abel Muzorewa , the Reverend Ndabaningi Sithole and Chief Jeremiah Chirau agreed what became the " Internal Settlement " . This created a joint black – white transitional government , with the country due to be reconstituted as Zimbabwe Rhodesia in June 1979 , pursuant to multiracial elections . ZANU and ZAPU were invited to participate , but refused ; Nkomo sardonically dubbed Smith 's black colleagues " the blacksmiths " . ZANU proclaimed 1978 to be " The Year of the People " as the war continued . Officials from Muzorewa 's United African National Council , sent to the provinces to explain the Internal Settlement to rural blacks , were killed by Marxist – Leninist guerrillas . Insurgents also began to target Christian missionaries , climaxing in the killing of nine British missionaries and four children at Elim Mission near the Mozambican border on 23 June .The transitional government was badly received abroad , partly because the Internal Settlement kept control of law enforcement , the military , the judiciary and the civil service under white control . No country recognised Rhodesia 's interim administration . Smith again worked to bring Nkomo into the government , hoping this would lend it some credence domestically , prompt diplomatic recognition overseas , and help the security forces defeat ZANLA . Starting on 14 August 1978 , he attended secret meetings with Nkomo in Lusaka , Zambia ( where ZAPU was based ) , doing so with the assistance of the mining corporation Lonrho . Attempts were made to also involve the ZANU leader Robert Mugabe , but Mugabe would have no part in the talks . According to the South African military historian Jakkie Cilliers , negotiations between Smith and Nkomo progressed well and " seemed on the verge of success " by the start of September 1978 . On 2 September , Smith and Nkomo revealed publicly that the secret meetings had taken place .