Despite the Mongol military success , the control of the borderlands remained contested . Pagan did not relinquish its claim to the frontier regions , and the Burmese , apparently taking advantage of Mongol preoccupations elsewhere , rebuilt their forts at Kaungsin and Ngasaunggyan later in 1278 , posting permanent garrisons commanded by Einda Pyissi . But their control was short @-@ lived . The Great Khan 's attention turned to Southeast Asia once more in 1281 . He had had mixed success : his vaunted forces had finished off the last of the Song in 1279 but had again failed to take Japan in 1281 . That year , the Mongol emperor sent another mission to Pagan , demanding tribute yet again . The Burmese king was to send his ten senior ministers accompanied by one thousand cavalry officers to the emperor 's court . ( With Champa , the emperor summoned the king of Champa himself to Beijing . )At Pagan , Narathihapate deliberated with his court for an appropriate response but ultimately refused to submit . The Burmese court may have been counting on another limited border war but the emperor now ordered an invasion of northern Burma . ( He also ordered an invasion of Champa , whose king too had refused to submit . ) The Burmese king 's troubles did not go unnoticed elsewhere in the kingdom . In the same year , a usurper named Wareru seized the southern port city of Martaban ( Mottama ) by killing its Pagan @-@ appointed governor . Although the king 's three sons were viceroys of the nearby Lower Burma cities ( in Bassein ( Pathein ) , Prome ( Pyay ) , and Dala ) , the king , preoccupied with much more serious threat in the north , did not ( or could not ) take any action on Martaban .Throughout 1282 , the Mongol command made preparations for the upcoming invasions of Champa and northern Burma . The objective of the Burma campaign was to take over northern Burma but no further ; the emperor did not sanction an attack on Pagan itself . At least one army consisted of 14 @,@ 000 men of the erstwhile Persian Khwarezmid Empire under the command of Yalu Beg was sent to Yunnan to reinforce the Burma invasion force , which again was made up of Turks and other central Asians . On the Burmese side , the king managed to raise an army although given his low standing with his vassals , he probably could not have raised a large one . By mid @-@ 1283 , a Burmese army led by generals Ananda Pyissi and Yanda Pyissi was deployed at a fort at Ngasaunggyan .