The team were met in Britain by local rugby administrators , including an official of England 's Rugby Football Union ( RFU ) . The first match of the tour was against Surrey , where the team became the first New Zealand side to perform a haka , and also the first to wear an all black uniform . That the team was predominantly Māori provoked curiosity from the British press – at the time , most Britons had not seen non @-@ white people – but there was some surprise that the team were not as " Māori " as had been expected . " They are not unlike Europeans , " a Scottish reporter wrote in November 1888 ; " that is their resemblance is great when one remembers that they were a savage tribe no further back than a generation " . The Surrey match , which was refereed by the RFU secretary George Rowland Hill , was won 4 – 1 by the Natives after they scored two tries .The Natives next defeated both Northamptonshire and Kent , before defeats by Moseley and Burton @-@ on @-@ Trent . Both defeats were unexpected , and in the Moseley match , injuries played a part – the tourists played most of the match at least two men down , as replacements were then not allowed . The team recovered to win their next game , against Midlands Counties in Birmingham . Their next fixture was against Middlesex in a match not open to the public , and hosted by the Earl of Sheffield at Sheffield Park , Uckfield . The Middlesex side contained a number of international players , including Arthur Gould . Middlesex won easily , with the Natives play characterised by poor tackling . The final score was 9 – 0 , with three tries conceded by the New Zealanders . Prior to the match both sides had enjoyed lunch with wine – an indulgence the Natives were not used to . A report in the Auckland Star had this to say of the game :The New Zealanders expected to meet a mere exhibition 15 of scratch players , whereas Mr Rowland Hill had carefully collected the best possible team available . Such " passing " as the Home men displayed the Maoris frankly admit they have never previously witnessed . Said McCausland whilst we were on the platform waiting for the London train , " I think they would have just beaten us , even if we had been in good form . "Following the match against Middlesex , the team travelled to the north , where the strongest English rugby teams were based . Yorkshire and Lancashire dominated the county championship until many of their respective member clubs split from the RFU in 1895 over the issue of " broken time " payments . The New Zealanders lost to Hull 1 – 0 , defeated Dewsbury , then lost to Wakefield . After their first draw of the tour ( against Northumberland County ) they defeated Stockton @-@ on @-@ Tees and Tynemouth . Joe Warbrick appeared in the match against Tynemouth , but aggravated the foot injury that had kept him out of the side until that point . These victories were followed by a 13 – 4 defeat to Halifax on 10 November . The team then won seven matches in a row , including one against Hawick RFC , their only Scottish opposition of the tour . The last two matches that month were a loss to Swinton and a 9 – 0 victory over Liverpool and District . The team had played thirteen fixtures during November and won ten of them . By this point , the team was beset by injuries – of the fifteen players that played against Westmorland County on 24 November , five had injuries . The squad comprised only 26 players , and the tourists were often struggling to field a side . Nevertheless , their heavy schedule continued ; on 30 November 1888 they left for Dublin , where a match had been organised against the Ireland national team .