The Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) administers most land in the Trout Creek Mountains , but there are also some private lands and some roads in the area . The private lands are mainly used for ranching along mountain streams , while the BLM lands include large grazing allotments for local ranchers ' cattle . At least 100 mining claims in the mountains have been recorded since 1892 , some of which were staked for gold exploration . Commercial mining has occurred in some areas , mostly near the McDermitt Caldera , where uranium and large amounts of mercury have been extracted . Mines in what was called the Opalite Mining District produced 270 @,@ 000 flasks of mercury — " the richest supply of mercury in the western hemisphere " — from cinnabar extracted from the caldera in the 20th century . The two leading mercury @-@ producing mines in North America were the Cordero and McDermitt mines on the edge of the caldera in Nevada . Together , they operated from 1933 to 1989 . The McDermitt Mine , the last mercury mine in the United States , closed three years later , in 1992 . However , mineral exploration has continued at the Cordero Mine in the 21st century , and waste containing mercury and arsenic was returned there from the community of McDermitt as part of a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency cleanup project .The entire mountain range is very remote ; as a result , there are few visitors , and the range offers a wilderness @-@ like experience . Camping , hunting , fishing , and hiking are the most popular activities . The only developed recreation site nearby is at Willow Creek Hot Springs , just south of the Whitehorse Ranch , where nearby there are miles of trails designated for four @-@ wheel off @-@ road vehicles . Hunters come to the mountains seeking trophy mule deer , pronghorn , chukars , and rabbits . Fishing on some streams is sometimes permitted on a catch @-@ and @-@ release basis . The mountains are also suitable for hiking cross @-@ country or on game trails in natural corridors along canyons and creek bottoms . There are more than 100 archaeological sites in the range that document use by Northern Paiute people as long as 7 @,@ 000 years ago .Cattle grazing in the Trout Creek Mountains began in the late 19th century , and the BLM currently oversees grazing allotments in the area . Cattle can be found grazing in some areas during the spring and summer months . The effects of grazing on the local environment were the subject of controversy in the 1980s .