Beckham 's term as governor ended December 10 , 1907 . In January 1908 he faced the legislature as the Democratic nominee for a seat in the U.S. Senate by virtue of the primary held two years earlier . The Republicans nominated former governor William O. Bradley . On the first ballot Beckham secured 66 of the needed 69 votes ; Bradley received 64 votes . Seven Democrats had not voted for Beckham . Over the next six weeks , 25 more votes were taken with neither man securing a majority , even though William Jennings Bryan , the Democratic nominee for president , campaigned for Beckham . Some Democrats pressured Beckham to withdraw and allow a more palatable Democrat to run , but he refused . On the 29th ballot , taken near the end of February 1908 , Bradley finally secured a majority after four Democrats crossed party lines to vote for him .Beckham 's ardent support of prohibition likely cost him the election . His position put him at odds with Henry Watterson , editor of the powerful Louisville Courier @-@ Journal . As governor Beckham had crossed the liquor interests and the political machinery in Louisville . When the Kentucky Court of Appeals invalidated the results of Louisville 's municipal elections due to interference by the city 's " whiskey ring " in May 1907 , Beckham appointed Robert Worth Bingham , a young lawyer and fellow prohibitionist , as interim mayor until elections could be held in November . Bingham eliminated grafting in the police department , closed gambling houses and enforced blue laws closing saloons on Sunday . Following this , the whiskey ring announced Beckham had forfeited the support of Louisville 's legislators . In the senatorial election in 1908 , three of the four Democrats who voted against Beckham were from Louisville . Following his defeat , Beckham returned to his law practice .Six years later Beckham again attempted to win the Senate seat . Due to the passage of the Seventeenth Amendment , the senator would not be elected by the legislature , but by popular vote . In the Democratic primary Beckham defeated Augustus O. Stanley , a 12 @-@ year veteran congressman . The Republican nominee was former governor Augustus E. Willson . Bolstered by his support of President Woodrow Wilson , Beckham won the election by 32 @,@ 000 votes .Beckham served as chairman of the Senate Committee on Expenditures in the Department of Labor from 1915 to 1917 and on the Senate Committee on Military Affairs . In the latter position he was influential in securing two large military training posts for Kentucky , Camp Zachary Taylor and Fort Knox . Though Camp Zachary Taylor was abandoned after World War I , Fort Knox became the home of the United States Bullion Depository . When the United States entered World War I , Beckham continued to back President Wilson and supported the League of Nations .True to his prohibitionist stance , Beckham supported passage of the Eighteenth Amendment forbidding the import and sale of alcohol in the United States . The amendment was ratified and became effective in January 1920 . Believing women should be protected from involvement in politics , Beckham opposed the Nineteenth Amendment , which granted women 's suffrage . The amendment failed on February 10 , 1919 , but passed on June 4 , 1919 . Beckham voted against it both times .The Democrats renominated Beckham without opposition in 1920 . His opponent in the general election was Republican Richard P. Ernst . Prohibition had destroyed the distilling industry and the saloon business in the state , and in areas where these industries were prominent Beckham received more than 5 @,@ 000 fewer votes than Democratic presidential nominee James M. Cox . He was also hurt by the women 's vote and by his support of President Wilson , who had lost popularity since Beckham 's election in 1914 . Ernst won the election by fewer than 5 @,@ 000 votes , winning the race with 50 @.@ 3 percent of the vote to Beckham 's 49 @.@ 7 percent . During his single term in the Senate Beckham served alongside three other U.S. Senators from Kentucky : Ollie M. James , George B. Martin and Augustus O. Stanley .