In the 5th century the power of the city reached as far south as Copán , whose founder K 'inich Yax K 'uk ' Mo ' was clearly connected with Tikal . Copán itself was not in an ethnically Maya region and the founding of the Copán dynasty probably involved the direct intervention of Tikal . K 'inich Yax K 'uk ' Mo ' arrived in Copán in December 426 and bone analysis of his remains shows that he passed his childhood and youth at Tikal . An individual known as Ajaw K 'uk ' Mo ' ( lord K 'uk ' Mo ' ) is referred to in an early text at Tikal and may well be the same person . His tomb had Teotihuacan characteristics and he was depicted in later portraits dressed in the warrior garb of Teotihuacan . Hieroglyphic texts refer to him as " Lord of the West " , much like Siyah K ’ ak ’ . At the same time , in late 426 , Copán founded the nearby site of Quiriguá , possibly sponsored by Tikal itself . The founding of these two centers may have been part of an effort to impose Tikal 's authority upon the southeastern portion of the Maya region . The interaction between these sites and Tikal was intense over the next three centuries .A long @-@ running rivalry between Tikal and Calakmul began in the 6th century , with each of the two cities forming its own network of mutually hostile alliances arrayed against each other in what has been likened to a long @-@ running war between two Maya superpowers . The kings of these two capitals adopted the title kaloomte ' , a term that has not been precisely translated but that implies something akin to " high king " .The early 6th century saw another queen ruling the city , known only as the " Lady of Tikal " , who was very likely a daughter of Chak Tok Ich 'aak II . She seems never to have ruled in her own right , rather being partnered with male co @-@ rulers . The first of these was Kaloomte ' B 'alam , who seems to have had a long career as a general at Tikal before becoming co @-@ ruler and 19th in the dynastic sequence . The Lady of Tikal herself seems not have been counted in the dynastic numbering . It appears she was later paired with lord " Bird Claw " , who is presumed to be the otherwise unknown 20th ruler . .