The match against England was causing the Natives ' players and management problems before it had even begun . The team manager , Scott , was in dispute with the RFU over where the match should be played – the RFU were adamant that the match should take place at Blackheath 's ground , but Scott wanted the game to proceed at The Oval , where a larger crowd , and therefore higher gate receipts , could be secured . The strictly amateur RFU establishment were already suspicious of the profit @-@ making motives of the Natives , and were unwilling to yield on the selection of venue . The RFU was also in dispute with the other Home Unions over the formation of the International Rugby Football Board ( IRFB ) . Following a disputed try in an England – Scotland international match in 1888 , the Scottish authorities had pushed for the establishment of an international body to oversee the game , but the RFU insisted that they would only join if they held a deciding vote , arguing that they deserved this as they were , they asserted , the senior body , and had the most member clubs . Ireland , Wales and Scotland consequently refused to play against England until 1891 , when , following arbitration , the RFU relented and joined the IRFB . The absence of international matches was a factor in England agreeing to face the Natives on 16 February 1889 .The line @-@ ups selected for the 16 February match were both strong , and close to full strength . Though 12 of the England side had not played internationally before , all were experienced at domestic level . The match was refereed by Rowland Hill , who had also officiated the Natives ' first match in Britain , against Surrey . The opening of the first half was a scoreless affair , with much tackling and scrummaging on the heavy ground . Later in the half England scored two tries through Harry Bedford , but both were disputed by the Natives , who claimed that one of their players had grounded the ball in @-@ goal . England took the two @-@ try advantage into the second half .Early in the second half a third disputed try was scored by the English . The try and its aftermath caused controversy and a rift between the Natives and the RFU . Ellison attempted to tackle the English player Stoddart , and in the process ripped his shorts off . The Natives quickly formed a circle around Stoddart to allow him to replace his clothing without being seen . While this was happening one of the English players , Frank Evershed , picked up the ball and scored a try . The New Zealanders protested , believing that play had stopped after claiming Stoddart had called " dead ball " – but Hill awarded the try , prompting three of the Native players , Dick Taiaroa , Williams , and Sherry Wynyard , to leave the field in protest . The aggrieved players were eventually persuaded to return , but not before Hill had restarted play . Ellison was very critical of Hill , particularly because he was also Secretary of the RFU . Ellison wrote after the tour that " gross as these errors were , they were insignificant when compared with another that Mr Hill committed at the outset of the game , viz , refereeing at all in that game " . The disputed try was followed by a final try for the English , who ultimately won 7 – 0 .The RFU , at Hill 's instigation , promptly demanded an apology from the Natives ' captain of the day , Edward McCausland , who had led the team as Joe Warbrick was injured . The English authorities of the time believed that the decision of a referee was above question , and that protesting a decision as the New Zealanders had done was unsportsmanlike . The RFU threatened to bar any of their affiliated players – in other words , the entire rugby playing population of England – from facing the Natives if they did not apologise . McCausland swiftly sent an apology by telegram , but this was deemed inadequate ; he therefore sent another , four days after the game :The London establishment that governed the game were disturbed by the New Zealanders ' approach to the game ; reports of rough and over @-@ aggressive play by the Natives had steadily increased in frequency since their arrival in Britain . In the north of England , criticism of the visitors ' sportsmanship was rarer ; the tourists were accepted as playing the game in the same spirit as their local opponents , which in the north was a more working class sport than in the south . Some of the Natives , including Joe Warbrick , accused the RFU and the English press of hypocrisy , claiming that they were quick to criticise the New Zealanders for rough play , yet tolerant of similar behaviour from their own players .