" Where the Streets Have No Name " made its concert debut on 2 April 1987 in Tempe , Arizona on the opening night of The Joshua Tree Tour . It has since been played at nearly every full @-@ length concert that U2 has headlined , totaling over 700 performances as of 2011 . The song is widely regarded as one of the group 's most popular live songs . Bono said of it , " We can be in the middle of the worst gig in our lives , but when we go into that song , everything changes . The audience is on its feet , singing along with every word . It 's like God suddenly walks through the room . "On The Joshua Tree Tour , " Where the Streets Have No Name " was most often used to open concerts . Fans and critics responded favourably to the song in a live setting . The San Diego Union @-@ Tribune wrote that , " From the lofty sonic opening strains of [ the song ] , this audience was up , ecstatic and inflamed . " NME wrote that the song is one such occasion where " the power afforded their songs is scary " , noting that during the song 's opening , " the arena ERUPTS " . In other reviews , the song was called : " uplifting " , " exhilarating " , and " powerful " . Out of the 109 shows during The Joshua Tree Tour , " Streets " was played at all except 12 of the concerts . During the Lovetown Tour which took place in 1989 and the beginning of 1990 , " Streets " was only left out of the set list at one of the 47 concerts .The song was performed at every show on the 1992 – 1993 Zoo TV Tour . Concerts from this tour were elaborate multimedia spectacles that Bono performed as a variety of characters , but for the end of the main set , the group reverted to playing classics , including " Where the Streets Have No Name " , straight . Some of these performances of the song were accompanied by footage of the group in the desert from The Joshua Tree 's photo shoot . The video was speeded up for humorous effect — NME described the effect as giving it a " silly , Charlie Chaplin quality " — and Bono often acknowledged his younger self on the video screens . This video would make a return during performances on the 2010 and 2011 legs of the U2 360 ° Tour . Some of the Zoo TV performances of the song had a more electronic dance music arrangement that bore a resemblance to the Pet Shop Boys ' synthpop cover of the song ( titled " Where the Streets Have No Name ( I Can 't Take My Eyes off You ) " ) . Bono parodied this by occasionally adopting the deadpan vocal style used in the Pet Shop Boys ' cover . Critics welcomed the song in the group 's setlist : The Independent said the song " induces instant euphoria , as U2 do what they 're best at , slipping into epic rock mode , playing music made for the arena " . In two other local newspaper reviews , critics praised the song 's inclusion in a sequence of greatest hits .For the PopMart Tour of 1997 – 1998 , U2 returned to the electronic dance arrangement they occasionally played on the Zoo TV Tour . The set 's massive video screen displayed a video that Hot Press described as an " astonishing , 2001 @-@ style trip into the heart of a swirling , psychedelic tunnel that sucks the audience in towards a horizontal monolith " . Near the end of the song , peace doves were shown on the screen and bright beams of light flanking the set 's golden arch were projected upwards . Hot Press said the effect transformed the stadium into a " UFO landing site " .Shortly before the third leg of the Elevation Tour , the September 11 attacks occurred in New York City and Washington D.C. During the band 's first show in New York City following the attacks , the band performed " Where the Streets Have No Name " , and when the stage lights illuminated the audience , the band saw tears streaming down the faces of many fans . The experience was one inspiration for the song " City of Blinding Lights " . The band paid tribute to the 9 / 11 victims during their performance of the song at the Super Bowl XXXVI halftime show on 3 February 2002 . The performance featured the names of the September 11 victims projected onto a large white banner behind the band . U2 's appearance was later ranked number 1 on Sports Illustrated 's list of " Top 10 Super Bowl Halftime Shows " .For the Vertigo Tour , the group originally considered dropping the song from their setlists , but Mullen and Clayton successfully argued against this . All 131 of the Vertigo Tour concerts featured a performance of the song , which were accompanied by the stage 's LED video curtains displaying African flags . On the tour 's opening night , this reminded Bono that he had originally written the lyrics in an Ethiopian village . He thought this visual accompaniment made the song come full circle , saying , " And here it was , nearly twenty years later , coming back to Africa , all the stuff about parched lands and deserts making sense for the first time . " The song was also played at the preview screening of the band 's concert film U2 3D at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival . At the Glastonbury Festival 2010 , The Edge accompanied rock band Muse for a live cover version of the track , later playing it with U2 while headlining Glastonbury in 2011 .Live performances of " Where the Streets Have No Name " appear in the concert video releases Rattle and Hum , Zoo TV : Live from Sydney , and PopMart : Live from Mexico City , as well as the respective audio releases of the latter two concerts , Zoo TV Live and Hasta la Vista Baby ! U2 Live from Mexico City . A second version from the PopMart Tour was featured on Please : PopHeart Live EP , and later on the U.S. " Please " single . A live recording from Boston during the Elevation Tour was featured in the concert film Elevation 2001 : Live from Boston , and on the " Walk On " and " Electrical Storm " singles . The concert video and album U2 Go Home : Live from Slane Castle , Ireland featured another performance from the Elevation Tour , and later performances were featured in the concert films Vertigo 2005 : Live from Chicago and U2 3D ( Vertigo Tour ) , and U2 360 ° at the Rose Bowl ( U2 360 ° Tour ) . The 2004 digital album , Live from the Point Depot , contains a performance from the Lovetown Tour , only available as part of The Complete U2 digital box set .