Papa Stour is located at the south western end of St Magnus Bay . There are 34 kilometres ( 21 mi ) of rugged coastline which is indented by numerous small embayments and four larger ' voes ' . Hamna Voe ( Old Norse : ' harbour bay ' ) in the south is the most sheltered anchorage and the surrounding cliffs contain a natural rock arch . Housa Voe to the east ( Old Norse : ' house bay ' ) is less secluded but is the main harbour for the island and the ferry 's embarkation point .Brei Holm and Maiden Stack guard the harbour entrance to the south . The former is a tidal island and was a leper colony until the 18th century ( although it has been suggested that many of the " lepers " there were suffering from a vitamin deficiency rather than leprosy ) . The latter 's name relates to a story from the 14th century . Lord Thorvald Thoresson is said to have constructed the tiny house at its top , whose ruins are still visible , in order to " preserve " his daughter from men . Unfortunately for his plans , when she left she was found to be pregnant ; in another version of the story , she and her fisherman sweetheart successfully eloped . West Voe , the inner part of which is called ' Robies Noust ' is the main voe in the north coast , the smaller Culla Voe lying immediately to the west .The main settlement on the island today is Biggings , which overlooks Housa Voe and is surrounded by in @-@ bye land to the east of the hill dyke ( which runs south from West Voe ) . To the west the island is bisected by a belt of glacial moraine about one and a half kilometres in length . Much of the rest of the area consists of a shallow stony soil that may be derived from glacial till . There is an almost complete absence of peat on the island and due to the volcanic rocks the soils are relatively fertile . The lack of peat led to ' turf scalping ' for fuel and the bare areas of rock in the interior .The highest point on the island is in the north west at Virda Field , which rises to 87 metres ( 285 feet ) . Virda is possibly from the Old Norse for ' heap of stones ' .