Upon the release of The Joshua Tree , critics praised " Where the Streets Have No Name " . Steve Morse of The Boston Globe noted the " bell @-@ like tones from the Edge fram [ e ] a search for heaven " and along with the subsequent track on the album , " I Still Haven 't Found What I 'm Looking For " , these songs showed how the group were " pilgrims still on a quest ; not preachers who claim to have found answers " . The Bergen Record echoed these sentiments , saying the tracks demonstrated how the band was on a personal and spiritual quest . Rolling Stone called it " assertive rock " in their review of The Joshua Tree . The San Diego Union @-@ Tribune said of " Where the Streets Have No Name " , " the music charges , like someone fleeing for life " . The Washington Post said the track is " a bit oblique lyrically , but the implications are clear in Bono 's resolute delivery , Dave ( the Edge ) Evan 's quavering guitar , Adam Clayton 's cathedral bass and Larry Mullen 's rolling thunder drums " .NME lauded the song as the opening track by saying the album " starts by spitting furiously " . The publication praised Bono 's impassioned singing and The Edge 's guitar playing , which transformed the instrument into " something more than an endlessly abused piece of wood " . The review commented that the " last ten seconds are breathtakingly beautiful " . The Rocket wrote that the song builds a " wall of sound " that Bono 's vocals cut through with a " wail of desperation , as the lyrics agonize the need for personal spirituality " . The reviewer compared the opening riff to Simple Minds ' " Ghostdancing " . Reviewing The Joshua Tree , Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic called the song an " epic opener " . The service 's Steve Huey , in a review of the song , praised its " insistent , propulsive rhythmic drive and anthemic chorus " , qualities he singled out for making it a fan favorite . He called the song the " perfect album @-@ opener " , crediting the " slow build of its arrangement toward a climactic peak " . Huey also called Bono 's delivery " passionate and grandiose " and " his commitment to the material unshakable " . He believed the combination of his vocals and the band 's " sonic power " is what gave U2 its " tremendous force " .