The TNA X Division Championship was defended by then @-@ champion Petey Williams against Kaz in the opening contest of the telecast . Williams was accompanied by Rhaka Khan and Scott Steiner . The duration of the bout was 15 minutes and 19 seconds . Williams wore a protective face mask due to a broken orbital bone . Khan and Steiner interfered in the bout several times . Kaz was legitimately busted open during the match after Williams bashed him in the face with a steel pipe . Williams won the encounter after performing his signature Canadian Destroyer maneuver by slamming Kaz head @-@ first into the mat to retain the TNA X Division Championship . Abyss returned after this match by aiding Kaz who was being attacked by Khan , Steiner , and Williams .The team of The Beautiful People and Mickie Knuckles — renamed Moose — fought the team of Gail Kim , ODB , and Roxxi in a Six Woman Tag Team match next . It lasted 10 minutes and 14 seconds . ODB won the bout for her team after running and slamming Moose against the mat back @-@ first and following with the pin .The TNA World Tag Team Championship was defended in the third match of the event by LAX against Team 3D . Héctor Guerrero and Salinas accompanied LAX to the ring . Salinas , Guerrero , and Team 3D 's associate Johnny Devine all interfered in the encounter . Near the end when Team 3D were waiting to perform their signature 3D tag team maneuver on Hernandez , Homicide came up behind Devon and pinned him with a schoolboy pin at 15 minutes to retain the championship .TNA held two $ 25 @,@ 000 Fan Challenge segments next with then @-@ TNA Women 's Knockout Champion Awesome Kong and her manager Raisha Saeed offering fans in the crowd the chance to face Kong . Kong and Saeed then chose a willing participant and if they defeated Kong they won $ 25 @,@ 000 . The participants chosen for these segments were predetermined , with each planted in the crowd . The first encounter pitted Serena D against Kong , which Kong won after slamming Serena face @-@ first into the mat with her signature Implant Buster maneuver at 2 minutes and 26 seconds . The second was between Josie Robinson and Kong , lasting 1 minute and 42 seconds . Kong won the bout after slamming Josie back @-@ first into the mat with her signature Awesome Bomb maneuver .