Despite his reputation as an artist and seal @-@ carver , Hu was primarily a publisher . His publishing house , the Ten Bamboo Studio , produced reference works on calligraphy , poetry and art ; medical textbooks ; books on etymology and phonetics ; and copies of as well as commentaries on the Confucian Classics . Unlike other publishers in the area , the Ten Bamboo Studio did not publish works of narrative fiction such as plays or novels . This bias towards academia was likely a consequence of the studio 's location : the mountain on which Hu took up residence was just to the north of the Nanjing Guozijian ( National Academy ) , which provided a captive market for academic texts . Between 1627 and 1644 , the Ten Bamboo Studio produced over twenty printed books of this kind , aimed at a wealthy , literary audience . The studio 's earliest publications were medical textbooks , the first of which , Tested Prescriptions for Myriad Illnesses ( Wanbing Yanfang , 萬病驗方 ) was published in 1631 and proved popular enough to be reissued ten years later . Hu 's brother Zhengxin was a medical practitioner and appears to have been the author of these books .During the 1630s the Ten Bamboo Studio also produced political works extolling the rule of the Ming ; these included the Imperial Ming Record of Loyalty ( Huang Ming Biaozhong Ji , 皇明表忠紀 ) , a biography of loyal Ming officials , and the Edicts of the Imperial Ming ( Huang Ming Zhaozhi , 皇明詔制 ) , a list of Imperial proclamations . After the fall of the Ming Dynasty , Hu renamed the studio the Hall Rooted in the Past ( Digutang , 迪古堂 ) as a sign of his affiliation with the previous dynasty , although the Ten Bamboo imprint continued to be used . Despite Hu 's withdrawal from society after 1646 , the studio continued to publish well into the Qing dynasty , for the most part focussing on seal impression catalogues showcasing Hu 's carving work .The Ming dynasty had seen considerable advancement in the process of colour printing in China . At his studio , Hu Zhengyan experimented with various forms of woodblock printing , creating processes for producing multi @-@ coloured prints and embossed printed designs . As a result , he was able to produce some of China 's first printed publications in colour , using a block printing technique known as " assorted block printing " ( douban yinshua , 饾板印刷 ) . This system made use of multiple blocks , each carved with a different part of the final image and each bearing a different colour . It was a lengthy , painstaking process , requiring thirty to fifty engraved printing blocks and up to seventy inkings and impressions to create a single image . Hu also employed a related form of multiple @-@ block printing called " set @-@ block printing " ( taoban yinshua , 套板印刷 ) , which had existed since the Yuan period some 200 years earlier but had only recently come into fashion again . He refined these block printing techniques by developing a process for wiping some of the ink off the blocks before printing ; this enabled him to achieve gradation and modulation of shades which were not previously possible .In some images , Hu employed a blind embossing technique ( known as " embossed designs " ( gonghua , 拱花 ) or " embossed blocks " ( gongban , 拱板 ) , using an uninked , imprinted block to stamp designs onto paper . He used this to create white relief effects for clouds and for highlights on water or plants . This was a relatively new process , having been invented by Hu 's contemporary Wu Faxiang , who was also a Nanjing @-@ based publisher . Wu had used this technique for the first time in his book Wisteria Studio Letter Paper ( Luoxuan Biangu Jianpu , 蘿軒變古箋譜 ) , published in 1626 . Both Hu and Wu used embossing to create decorative writing papers , the sale of which provided a sideline income for the Ten Bamboo Studio .