On 25 June 1950 , the North Korean Army ( KPA ) crossed the border into South Korea and advanced for the capital Seoul , which fell in less than a week . North Korean forces continued toward the port of Pusan and two days later the United States offered its assistance to South Korea . In response the United Nations Security Council requested members to assist in repelling the North Korean attack . Australia initially contributed P @-@ 51 Mustang fighter @-@ bomber aircraft from No. 77 Squadron RAAF and infantry from the 3rd Battalion , Royal Australian Regiment ( 3 RAR ) , both of which were stationed in Japan as part of the BCOF . In addition , it provided the majority of supply and support personnel to the British Commonwealth Forces Korea . The RAN frigate HMAS Shoalhaven , and the destroyer HMAS Bataan , were also committed . Later , an aircraft carrier strike group aboard HMAS Sydney was added to the force .By the time 3 RAR arrived in Pusan on 28 September , the North Koreans were in retreat following the Inchon landings . As a part of the invasion force under the UN Supreme Commander , General Douglas MacArthur , the battalion moved north and was involved in its first major action at Battle of Yongju near Pyongyang on 22 October , before advancing towards the Yalu River . Further successful actions followed at Kujin on 25 – 26 October 1950 and at Chongju on 29 October 1950 . North Korean casualties were heavy , while Australian losses included their commanding officer , Lieutenant Colonel Charles Green , who was wounded in the stomach by artillery fire after the battle and succumbed to his wounds and died two days later on 1 November . Meanwhile , during the last weeks of October the Chinese had moved 18 divisions of the People 's Volunteer Army across the Yalu River to reinforce the remnants of the KPA . Undetected by US and South Korean intelligence , the 13th Army Group crossed the border on 16 October and penetrated up to 100 kilometres ( 62 mi ) into North Korea , and were reinforced in early November by 12 divisions from the 9th Army Group ; in total 30 divisions composed of 380 @,@ 000 men . 3 RAR fought its first action against the Chinese at Pakchon on 5 November . The fighting cost the battalion heavily and despite halting a Chinese division the new battalion commander was dismissed in the wake . Following the Chinese intervention , the UN forces were defeated in successive battles and 3 RAR was forced to withdraw to the 38th parallel .A series of battles followed at Uijeongbu on 1 – 4 January 1951 , as the British and Australians occupied defensive positions in an attempt to secure the northern approaches to the South Korean capital . Further fighting occurred at Chuam @-@ ni on 14 – 17 February 1951 following another Chinese advance , and later at Maehwa @-@ San between 7 – 12 March 1951 as the UN resumed the offensive . Australian troops subsequently participated in two more major battles in 1951 , with the first taking place during fighting which later became known as the Battle of Kapyong . On 22 April , Chinese forces attacked the Kapyong valley and forced the South Korean defenders to withdraw . Australian and Canadian troops were ordered to halt this Chinese advance . After a night of fighting the Australians recaptured their positions , at the cost of 32 men killed and 59 wounded . In July 1951 , the Australian battalion became part of the combined Canadian , British , Australian , New Zealand , and Indian 1st Commonwealth Division . The second major battle took place during Operation Commando and occurred after the Chinese attacked a salient in a bend of the Imjin River . The 1st Commonwealth Division counter @-@ attacked on 3 October , capturing a number of objectives including Hill 355 and Hill 317 during the Battle of Maryang San ; after five days the Chinese retreated . Australian casualties included 20 dead and 104 wounded .The belligerents then became locked in static trench warfare akin to the First World War , in which men lived in tunnels , redoubts , and sandbagged forts behind barbed wire defences . From 1951 until the end of the war , 3 RAR held trenches on the eastern side of the division 's positions in the hills northeast of the Imjin River . Across from them were heavily fortified Chinese positions . In March 1952 , Australia increased its ground commitment to two battalions , sending 1 RAR . This battalion remained in Korea for 12 months , before being replaced by 2 RAR in April 1953 . The Australians fought their last battle during 24 – 26 July 1953 , with 2 RAR holding off a concerted Chinese attack along the Samichon River and inflicting significant casualties for the loss of five killed and 24 wounded . Hostilities were suspended on 27 July 1953 . 17 @,@ 808 Australians served during the war , with 341 killed , 1 @,@ 216 wounded and 30 captured .