Early public education in Meridian was based on the 1870 Mississippi Constitution . From 1870 to 1885 , trustees appointed by the City Council served on the Board of School Directors , which had authority to operate the schools . Although there were several schools in the city before 1884 , they were privately owned and only enrolled about 400 students . The city did not build its first publicly owned school until September 1884 . The first public school for blacks in the city was held in facilities rented from St. Paul Methodist Church . The Mississippi Legislature amended the city charter in January 1888 to allow the city to maintain its own municipal school district , and in March of the same year $ 30 @,@ 000 in bonds was approved for the city to build new public schools . From this bond , the Wechsler School was built in 1894 , becoming the first brick public school building in the state built for blacks .From this early district and later additions , the Meridian Public School District grew to its current size , which now includes six elementary schools , 3 middle schools , and 3 high schools . The city also contains several private schools including Lamar School , Calvary Christian School , Community Christian School , and St. Patrick 's Catholic School . The campus of Meridian High School , the main high school in the district , occupies 37 acres ( 15 ha ) , including six buildings and 111 classrooms . The school is made up of grades 10 @-@ 12 and enrolls approximately 1 @,@ 500 students .Meridian is home to two post @-@ secondary educational institutions . Meridian Community College , founded in 1937 , is located at 910 Highway 19 N and offers free tuition for four semesters to graduates from the Meridian Public and Lauderdale County School Districts as well as homeschooled children who reside inside Lauderdale County . Originally known as Meridian Junior College and located at Meridian High School , the college moved to its present location in 1965 . After desegregation laws were passed , MJC merged with T.J. Harris Junior College in 1970 , which had previously enrolled African @-@ American students . The name change from Meridian Junior College to Meridian Community College took place In 1987 " to more accurately reflect the diversity of opportunities it provides for a growing community area . " Mississippi State University also operates a campus in the city . As of the Fall 2008 semester , 763 students from 33 counties throughout the state and several in Alabama attended the college .Meridian is served by the Meridian @-@ Lauderdale County Public Library , located at the corner of 7th Street and 26th Avenue . The city originally had two Carnegie libraries , both built in 1913 – one for blacks and one for whites . A group of women had formed the Fortnightly Book and Magazine Club in the 1880s and began raising money to build a library for the city . The books they collected and shared within the club were later the basis of the library collection for Meridian . With wide support for the library , the club enlisted Israel Marks , a city leader , to approach the national philanthropist Andrew Carnegie for funding assistance . The library for blacks was built at 13th Street and 28th Avenue on land donated by St. Paul Methodist Church , and the library for whites was established in a building originally owned by members of the First Presbyterian Church of Meridian , who sold it to the city on September 25 , 1911 . The African American library was the only library for blacks in the state until after World War I and is the only Carnegie library ever built for African Americans in the country . The two libraries served the city until 1967 , when the institutions became integrated because of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , combined their collections , and moved all materials to their current location . The former white library was renovated and converted into the Meridian Museum of Art in 1970 , and the former African @-@ American library was demolished on May 28 , 2008 .