A report published in the American magazine Time a fortnight later described the incident as " a genuine horror story , calculated to make the most alarming of Rhodesian doomsday prophecies seem true . " Indeed , the white community in Rhodesia heard the news with fury , and many turned their minds to exacting retribution for what they and many others saw as an act of terrorism . The prominent Indian @-@ Rhodesian Gulab family was particularly affected by the incident , having lost eight members in the attack . Though Rhodesian authorities did not immediately acknowledge the cause of the crash , doing so only after four days ' investigation , the truth was common knowledge in Salisbury within hours . Smith wrote in his memoirs that the " degree of anger ... [ was ] difficult to control " . White South Africans were similarly enraged , particularly after reports appeared in the South African press that the killers had raped the female passengers before massacring them . A Friends of Rhodesia Society in South Africa offered a reward of R100,000 to anybody who would either kill Nkomo or bring him to Salisbury to stand trial .Geoffrey Nyarota , who was then one of the few black reporters at the Rhodesia Herald newspaper , later wrote in his memoirs that many whites became resentful and wary towards blacks in general , believing them all to be " terrorist sympathisers " . Describing the Herald newsroom the night of the incident , he relates a " vile collective temper " among the white sub @-@ editors : " They cursed until their voices became hoarse , threatening dire consequences for all terrs and munts or kaffirs ... I sensed that some of the more derogatory remarks made in unnecessarily loud voices that evening were meant specifically for my ears . "Several racially motivated incidents occurred over the following days . According to the Time article , a group of whites entered an unsegregated Salisbury bar " fingering the triggers of rifles " and forced blacks drinking there to leave . Time also reported a rumour that two white youths , on learning of the massacre , shot the first black man they saw . Smith says that several would @-@ be vigilante groups sought his permission to venture into the bush around the crash site to " make the local people pay for their crime of harbouring and assisting the terrorists " . He instructed them not to , according to his memoirs , telling them that many rural blacks only assisted the guerrillas under extreme duress , and that it would not do to attack them . Many Rhodesians also resented the apparent lack of sympathy emanating from overseas governments , especially considering the character of the attack and its civilian target .