Australian forces later joined British and American forces during the 2003 invasion of Iraq . The initial contribution was also a modest one , consisting of just 2 @,@ 058 personnel — codenamed Operation Falconer . Major force elements included special forces , rotary and fixed wing aviation and naval units . Army units included elements from the SASR and 4th Battalion , Royal Australian Regiment ( Commando ) , a CH @-@ 47 Chinook detachment and a number of other specialist units . RAN units included the amphibious ship HMAS Kanimbla and the frigates HMAS Darwin and HMAS Anzac , while the RAAF deployed 14 F / A @-@ 18 Hornets from No. 75 Squadron , a number of AP @-@ 3C Orions and C @-@ 130 Hercules . The Australian Special Forces Task Force was one of the first coalition units forces to cross the border into Iraq , while for a few days , the closest ground troops to Baghdad were from the SASR . During the invasion the RAAF also flew its first combat missions since the Vietnam War , with No. 75 Squadron flying a total of 350 sorties and dropping 122 laser @-@ guided bombs .The Iraqi military quickly proved no match for coalition military power , and with their defeat the bulk of Australian forces were withdrawn . While Australia did not initially take part in the post @-@ war occupation of Iraq , an Australian Army light armoured battlegroup — designated the Al Muthanna Task Group and including 40 ASLAV light armoured vehicles and infantry — was later deployed to Southern Iraq in April 2005 as part of Operation Catalyst . The role of this force was to protect the Japanese engineer contingent in the region and support the training of New Iraqi Army units . The AMTG later became the Overwatch Battle Group ( West ) ( OBG ( W ) ) , following the hand back of Al Muthanna province to Iraqi control . Force levels peaked at 1 @,@ 400 personnel in May 2007 including the OBG ( W ) in Southern Iraq , the Security Detachment in Baghdad and the Australian Army Training Team — Iraq . A RAN frigate was based in the North Persian Gulf , while RAAF assets included C @-@ 130H Hercules and AP @-@ 3C elements . Following the election of a new Labor government under Prime Minister Kevin Rudd the bulk of these forces were withdrawn by mid @-@ 2009 , while RAAF and RAN operations were redirected to other parts of the Middle East Area of Operations as part of Operation Slipper .Low @-@ level operations continued , however , with a small Australian force of 80 soldiers remaining in Iraq to protect the Australian Embassy in Baghdad as part of SECDET under Operation Kruger . SECDET was finally withdrawn in August 2011 , and was replaced by a private military company which took over responsibility for providing security for Australia 's diplomatic presence in Iraq . Although more than 17 @,@ 000 personnel served during operations in Iraq , Australian casualties were relatively light , with two soldiers accidentally killed , while a third Australian died serving with the British Royal Air Force . A further 27 personnel were wounded . Two officers remained in Iraq attached to the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq as part of Operation Riverbank . This operation concluded in November 2013 .