The Malayan Emergency was declared on 18 June 1948 , after three estate managers were murdered by members of the Malayan Communist Party ( MCP ) . Australian involvement began in June 1950 , when in response to a British request , six Lincolns from No. 1 Squadron and a flight of Dakotas from No. 38 Squadron arrived in Singapore to form part of the British Commonwealth Far East Air Force ( FEAF ) . The Dakotas were subsequently used on cargo runs , troop movement , as well as paratroop and leaflet drops , while the Lincoln bombers carried out bombing raids against the Communist Terrorist ( CT ) jungle bases . The RAAF were particularly successful , and in one such mission known as Operation Termite , five Lincoln bombers destroyed 181 communist camps , killed 13 communists and forced one into surrender , in a joint operation with the RAF and ground troops . The Lincolns were withdrawn in 1958 , and were replaced by Canberra bombers from No. 2 Squadron and CAC Sabres from No. 78 Wing . Based at RAAF Base Butterworth they also carried out a number ground attack missions against the guerrillas .Australian ground forces were deployed to Malaya in October 1955 as part of the Far East Strategic Reserve . In January 1956 , the first Australian ground forces were deployed on Malaysian peninsula , consisting of the 2nd Battalion , Royal Australian Regiment ( 2 RAR ) . 2 RAR mainly participated in " mopping up " operations over the next 20 months , conducting extensive patrolling in and near the CT jungle bases , as part of 28th British Commonwealth Brigade . Contact with the enemy was infrequent and results small , achieving relatively few kills . 2 RAR left Malaysia October 1957 to be replaced by 3 RAR . 3 RAR underwent six weeks of jungle training and began driving MCP insurgents back into the jungle of Perak and Kedah . The new battalion extensively patrolled and was involved in food denial operations and ambushes . Again contact was limited , although 3 RAR had more success than its predecessor . By late 1959 , operations against the MCP were in their final phase , and most communists had been pushed back and across the Thailand border . 3 RAR left Malaysia October 1959 and was replaced by 1 RAR . Though patrolling the border 1 RAR did not make contact with the insurgents , and in October 1960 it was replaced by 2 RAR , which stayed in Malaysia until August 1963 . The Malayan Emergency officially ended on 31 July 1960 .Australia also provided artillery and engineer support , along with an air @-@ field construction squadron . The Royal Australian Navy also served in Malayan waters , firing on suspected communist positions between 1956 and 1957 . The Emergency was the longest continued commitment in Australian military history ; 7 @,@ 000 Australians served and 51 died in Malaya — although only 15 were on operations — and another 27 were wounded .