During the American Civil War , the fort was renewed as a US military post . In August 1861 , the Union Army took command of Fort Scott , and readied it for the war times . The United States Army also took over several blocks within the town for commissary and quartermaster functions . The Union Army rented the properties from the current civilian owners . Troops from Indiana , Iowa , Colorado , Ohio , and Wisconsin would come to the fort , and either stayed by the fort , or traveled farther , to subjugate Missouri , Arkansas , or the Indian Territory . Fort Scott was one of the few installations that recruited and trained black soldiers for the United States Colored Troops of the Union Army .A major supply depot was situated at the fort . Confederate general Sterling Price hoped to capture the town , but the closest the Confederate force came to the garrison was 10 miles ( 16 km ) away at Battle of Dry Wood Creek . The site was strategically important as it was within a Southern @-@ sympathizing area and close to the Confederate state of Arkansas and the " unstable " Indian Territory ( present @-@ day state of Oklahoma ) , where many of the members of the Five Civilized Tribes were allied with the Confederates . The fort served as a " general hospital " ( large military hospital ) and prison until after the war . Following the end of the war , in October 1865 the US Army left the facilities and sold off by auction what they controlled .On January 14 , 1870 , the Army returned with the formation of the Post of Southeast Kansas . The Post was based at Fort Scott , but the soldiers camped along the rail tracks , and seldom used the original fort . They were sent to protect the railroads and workers from settlers . Some of the latter feared that the railroad , which had been awarded land for development by the US Government in rights @-@ of @-@ way , would evict them from their squatter homes . The settlers considered the troops lackeys to the railroads , and lumped both as enemies .Settlers also had some continuing conflicts with Indians and insurgents using the recent Confederate cause as excuse for robbery . By the spring of 1873 , the US Army withdrew the troops from Fort Scott for good . From 1873 to 1965 , the buildings of the fort were left unattended , and slowly deteriorated . Many military buildings were razed and replaced with structures built for civilian use .