By the 9th century , the crisis of the Classic Maya collapse was sweeping across the region , with populations plummeting and city after city falling into silence . Increasingly endemic warfare in the Maya region caused Tikal 's supporting population to heavily concentrate close to the city itself , accelerating the use of intensive agriculture and corresponding environmental decline . Construction continued at the beginning of the century , with the erection of Temple 3 , the last of the city 's major pyramids and the erection of monuments to mark the 19th K 'atun in 810 . The beginning of the 10th Bak 'tun in 830 passed uncelebrated , and marks the beginning of a 60 @-@ year hiatus , probably resulting from the collapse of central control in the city . During this hiatus , satellite sites traditionally under Tikal 's control began to erect their own monuments featuring local rulers and using the Mutal emblem glyph , with Tikal apparently lacking the authority or the power to crush these bids for independence . In 849 , Jewel K 'awiil is mentioned on a stela at Seibal as visiting that city as the Divine Lord of Tikal but he is not recorded elsewhere and Tikal 's once great power was little more than a memory . The sites of Ixlu and Jimbal had by now inherited the once exclusive Mutal emblem glyph .As Tikal and its hinterland reached peak population , the area suffered deforestation , erosion and nutrient loss followed by a rapid decline in population levels . Tikal and its immediate surroundings seem to have lost the majority of its population during the period from 830 to 950 and central authority seems to have collapsed rapidly . There is not much evidence from Tikal that the city was directly affected by the endemic warfare that afflicted parts of the Maya region during the Terminal Classic , although an influx of refugees from the Petexbatún region may have exacerbated problems resulting from the already stretched environmental resources .In the latter half of the 9th century there was an attempt to revive royal power at the much diminished city of Tikal , as evidenced by a stela erected in the Great Plaza by Jasaw Chan K 'awiil II in 869 . This was the last monument erected at Tikal before the city finally fell into silence . The former satellites of Tikal , such as Jimbal and Uaxactun , did not last much longer , erecting their final monuments in 889 . By the end of the 9th century the vast majority of Tikal 's population had deserted the city , its royal palaces were occupied by squatters and simple thatched dwellings were being erected in the city 's ceremonial plazas . The squatters blocked some doorways in the rooms they reoccupied in the monumental structures of the site and left rubbish that included a mixture of domestic refuse and non @-@ utilitarian items such as musical instruments . These inhabitants reused the earlier monuments for their own ritual activities far removed from those of the royal dynasty that had erected them . Some monuments were vandalized and some were moved to new locations . Before its final abandonment all respect for the old rulers had disappeared , with the tombs of the North Acropolis being explored for jade and the easier to find tombs being looted . After 950 , Tikal was all but deserted , although a remnant population may have survived in perishable huts interspersed among the ruins . Even these final inhabitants abandoned the city in the 10th or 11th centuries and the rainforest claimed the ruins for the next thousand years . Some of Tikal 's population may have migrated to the Peten Lakes region , which remained heavily populated in spite of a plunge in population levels in the first half of the 9th century .The most likely cause of collapse at Tikal is overpopulation and agrarian failure . The fall of Tikal was a blow to the heart of Classic Maya civilization , the city having been at the forefront of courtly life , art and architecture for over a thousand years , with an ancient ruling dynasty . However , new research regarding paleoenvironmental proxies from the Tikal reservoir system suggests that a meteorological drought may have led to the abandonment of Tikal .