The lyrical content of " Angel of Death " contributed to the delay of the release of Slayer 's 1986 album Reign in Blood . The band were signed to Def Jam Records whose distributor , Columbia Records , refused to release the album due to lyrical themes and artwork concerns , deeming the artwork " too graphic " . Reign in Blood was eventually distributed by Geffen Records on October 7 , 1986 . However , due to the controversy , Reign in Blood did not appear on Geffen Records official release schedule ." Angel of Death " caused outrage among survivors of the Holocaust , as well as their families and the general public . The controversy led to accusations of Nazi sympathizing which have followed Slayer throughout their career . People took Hanneman 's interest in Nazi history and his collection of Nazi medals as evidence of sympathizing – his most prized item being a German Knight 's Cross . Hanneman counteracted asserting :" I know why people misinterpret it – it 's because they get this knee – jerk reaction to it . When they read the lyrics , there 's nothing I put in the lyrics that says necessarily he was a bad man , because to me – well , isn 't that obvious ? I shouldn 't have to tell you that . "According to guitarist Kerry King : " Yeah , ' Slayer are Nazis , fascists , communists ' — all that fun shit . And of course we got the most flak for it in Germany . I was always like , ' Read the lyrics and tell me what 's offensive about it . Can you see it as a documentary , or do you think Slayer 's preaching fucking World War II ? ' People get this thought in their heads — especially in Europe — and you 'll never talk them out of it . "The song drew accusations of racism , which the band has denied . The band members are often asked about the accusations in interviews , and have stated numerous times that they do not condone racism and are merely interested in the subject .In 2006 , the song " Jihad " from Slayer 's 2006 album Christ Illusion drew comparison to " Angel of Death " . " Jihad " deals with the September 11 , 2001 , attacks , and tells the story from a terrorist 's perspective . Vocalist Araya was expecting the subject matter to create a similar backlash to that of " Angel of Death " , although it did not materialise , in part , he believes , due to peoples ' view that the song is " just Slayer being Slayer " .