Principal photography of Die Another Day began on 11 January 2002 at Pinewood studios . The film was shot primarily in the United Kingdom , Iceland , and Cádiz , Spain . Other locations included Pinewood Studios ' 007 Stage and Maui , Hawaii , in December 2001 . Laird Hamilton , Dave Kalama , and Darrick Doerner performed the pre @-@ title surfing scene at the surf break known as Jaws in Peʻahi , Maui , while the shore shots were taken near Cádiz and Newquay , Cornwall . Scenes inside Graves ' diamond mine were also filmed in Cornwall , at the Eden Project . The scenes involving the Cuban locations of Havana and the fictional Isla de Los Organos were filmed at La Caleta , Spain .The scenes featuring Berry in a bikini were shot in Cádiz . The location was reportedly cold and windy , and footage has been released of Berry wrapped in thick towels between takes to avoid catching a chill . Berry was injured during filming when debris from a smoke grenade flew into her eye . The debris was removed in a 30 @-@ minute operation .Gadgets and other props from every previous Bond film and stored in Eon Productions ' archives appear in Q 's warehouse in the London Underground . Examples include the jetpack in Thunderball and Rosa Klebb 's poison @-@ tipped shoe in From Russia with Love . Q mentions that the watch he issues Bond is " your 20th , I believe " , a reference to Die Another Day being the 20th Eon @-@ produced Bond film . In London , the Reform Club was used to shoot several places in the film , including the lobby and gallery at the Blades Club , MI6 Headquarters , Buckingham Palace , Green Park , and Westminster . Svalbard , Norway and Jökulsárlón , Iceland were used for the car chase on the ice with additional scenes filmed at Jostedalsbreen National Park , Norway and RAF Little Rissington , Gloucestershire ; Manston Airport in Kent was used for the scenes involving the Antonov cargo plane scenes . The scene in which Bond surfs the wave created by Icarus when Graves was attempting to kill Bond was shot on the blue screen . The waves , along with all the glaciers in the scene are computer @-@ generated .The hangar interior of the " US Air Base in South Korea " , shown crowded with Chinook helicopters , was filmed at RAF Odiham in Hampshire , UK , as were the helicopter interior shots during the Switchblade sequence . These latter scenes , though portrayed in the air , were actually filmed entirely on the ground with the sky background being added in post @-@ production using blue screen techniques . Although the base is portrayed in the film as a US base , all the aircraft and personnel in the scene are British in real life . In the film , Switchblades ( one @-@ person gliders resembling fighter jets in shape ) are flown by Bond and Jinx to stealthily enter North Korea . The Switchblade was based on a workable model called " PHASST " ( Programmable High Altitude Single Soldier Transport ) . Kinetic Aerospace Inc . ' s lead designer , Jack McCornack was impressed by director Lee Tamahori 's way of conducting the Switchblade scene and commented , " It 's brief , but realistic . The good guys get in unobserved , thanks to a fast cruise , good glide performance , and minimal radar signature . It 's a wonderful promotion for the PHASST . "