By the 1970s and 1980s , a century of intense cattle grazing had reduced much of the riparian vegetation along stream banks in the Trout Creek Mountains and elsewhere in the Great Basin . As a result , stream banks were eroding and upland vegetation was encroaching into riparian zones . Aspen populations declined as grazing cattle eliminated young trees , decreasing shade over streams and raising water temperatures . These conditions put the rare Lahontan cutthroat trout population at risk . Since the Lahontan was officially designated as a threatened species , environmental groups began advocating the cancellation of grazing permits in the Trout Creek Mountains .Beginning in the early 1970s , the Bureau of Land Management identified damaged riparian zones and began projects to restore natural habitat in those areas . Approximately 20 @,@ 000 willow trees were planted along streams , small dams were put together to create more pools in the streams , and fencing was added to protect riparian zones from grazing . Next , the agency sought to reform land @-@ use plans to change grazing practices , which became a complex and controversial project .As environmentalists pressed the BLM to close much of the Trout Creek Mountains to grazing , frustrated ranchers joined the Sagebrush Rebellion seeking to protect their grazing allotments . Initially , it appeared that the issue of grazing in the range would produce prolonged litigation with appeals potentially lasting decades . However , in 1988 , interest groups representing all sides of the issue joined to form the Trout Creek Mountain Working Group . The group 's goal was to find a solution acceptable to everyone — a plan that would protect both the land 's ecological health and ranchers ' economic needs .Initial members of the Trout Creek Mountain Working Group included :Over the next several years , the group continued to meet and discuss options for restoring the land while meeting the economic needs of local ranchers . Meetings were all open to the public .The group eventually endorsed a grazing management plan that provided for both the ecological health of sensitive riparian areas and the economic well @-@ being of ranchers . In 1989 , the Whitehorse Ranch agreed to rest two grazing allotments totaling 50 @,@ 000 acres ( 20 @,@ 000 ha ) to restore critical stream greenways and mountain pastures . The ranch 's allotment on Fifteen Mile Creek was rested for three years , and its Willow Creek pasture received a five @-@ year rest before grazing was resumed . In addition , the grazing season in mountain pastures was reduced from four months to two , and the total number of cattle released in the allotment areas was reduced from 3 @,@ 800 to 2 @,@ 200 . Finally , sensitive areas were fenced to protect them from cattle , and additional water sources were constructed away from streams . Other ranches also agreed to rest specific pastures including the Trout Creek , Cottonwood Creek , and Whitehorse Butte allotments .In 1991 , the Bureau of Land Management approved a new grazing allotment management plan . It was based on the agreements made by the Trout Creek Mountain Working Group , and it took effect in 1992 . Since then , vegetation in riparian areas of the Trout Creek Mountains has recovered , and studies by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service have found that the Lahontan cutthroat trout population , still listed as threatened , is also recovering .