The reactions of the native Aboriginal inhabitants to the sudden arrival of British settlers in Australia were varied , but were inevitably hostile when the settler 's presence led to competition over resources , and to the occupation of the indigenous inhabitants ' lands . European diseases decimated Aboriginal populations , and the occupation or destruction of lands and food resources sometimes led to starvation . By and large neither the British nor the Aborigines approached the conflict in an organised sense and conflict occurred between groups of settlers and individual tribes rather than systematic warfare . At times , however , the frontier wars did see the involvement of British soldiers and later mounted police units . Not all Aboriginal groups resisted white encroachment on their lands , while many Aborigines served in mounted police units and were involved in attacks on other tribes .Fighting between Aborigines and Europeans was localised as the Aborigines did not form confederations capable of sustained resistance . As a result , there was not a single war , but rather a series of violent engagements and massacres across the continent . Organised or disorganised however , a pattern of frontier warfare emerged with Aboriginal resistance beginning in the 18th century and continuing into the early 20th century . This warfare contradicts the popular and at times academic " myth " of peaceful settlement in Australia . Faced with Aboriginal resistance settlers often reacted with violence , resulting in a number of indiscriminate massacres . Among the most famous is the Battle of Pinjarra in Western Australia in 1834 . Such incidents were not officially sanctioned however , and after the Myall Creek massacre in New South Wales in 1838 seven Europeans were hanged for their part in the killings . However , in Tasmania the so @-@ called Black War was fought between 1828 and 1832 , and aimed at driving most of the island 's native inhabitants onto a number of isolated peninsulas . Although it began in failure for the British , it ultimately resulted in considerable casualties amongst the native population .It may be inaccurate though to depict the conflict as one sided and mainly perpetrated by Europeans on Aborigines . Although many more Aborigines died than British , this may have had more to do with the technological and logistic advantages enjoyed by the Europeans . Aboriginal tactics varied , but were mainly based on pre @-@ existing hunting and fighting practices — using spears , clubs and other primitive weapons . Unlike the indigenous peoples of New Zealand and North America , on the main Aborigines failed to adapt to meet the challenge of the Europeans . Although there were some instances of individuals and groups acquiring and using firearms , this was not widespread . The Aborigines were never a serious military threat to European settlers , regardless of how much the settlers may have feared them . On occasions large groups of Aborigines attacked the settlers in open terrain and a conventional battle ensued , during which the Aborigines would attempt to use superior numbers to their advantage . This could sometimes be effective , with reports of them advancing in crescent formation in an attempt to outflank and surround their opponents , waiting out the first volley of shots and then hurling their spears while the settlers reloaded . However , such open warfare usually proved more costly for the Aborigines than the Europeans .Central to the success of the Europeans was the use of firearms . However , the advantages afforded by firearms have often been overstated . Prior to the late 19th century , firearms were often cumbersome muzzle @-@ loading , smooth @-@ bore , single shot muskets with flint @-@ lock mechanisms . Such weapons produced a low rate of fire , while suffering from a high rate of failure and were only accurate within 50 metres ( 160 ft ) . These deficiencies may have initially given the Aborigines an advantage , allowing them to move in close and engage with spears or clubs . Yet by 1850 significant advances in firearms gave the Europeans a distinct advantage , with the six @-@ shot Colt revolver , the Snider single shot breech @-@ loading rifle and later the Martini @-@ Henry rifle , as well as rapid @-@ fire rifles such as the Winchester rifle , becoming available . These weapons , when used on open ground and combined with the superior mobility provided by horses to surround and engage groups of Aborigines , often proved successful . The Europeans also had to adapt their tactics to fight their fast @-@ moving , often hidden enemies . Tactics employed included night @-@ time surprise attacks , and positioning forces to drive the natives off cliffs or force them to retreat into rivers while attacking from both banks .The conflict lasted for over 150 years and followed the pattern of British settlement in Australia . Beginning in New South Wales with the arrival of the first Europeans in May 1788 , it continued in Sydney and its surrounds until the 1820s . As the frontier moved west so did the conflict , pushing into outback New South Wales in the 1840s . In Tasmania , fighting can be traced from 1804 to the 1830s , while in Victoria and the southern parts of South Australia , the majority of the violence occurred during the 1830s and 1840s . The south @-@ west of Western Australia experienced warfare from 1829 to 1850 . The war in Queensland began in the area around Brisbane in the 1840s and continued until 1860 , moving to central Queensland in the 1850s and 1860s , and then to northern Queensland from the 1860s to 1900 . In Western Australia , the violence moved north with European settlement , reaching the Kimberley region by 1880 , with violent clashes continuing until the 1920s . In the Northern Territory conflict lasted even later still , especially in central Australia , continuing from the 1880s to the 1930s . One estimate of casualties places European deaths at 2 @,@ 500 , while at least 20 @,@ 000 Aborigines are believed to have perished . Far more devastating though was the effect of disease which significantly reduced the Aboriginal population by the beginning of the 20th century ; a fact which may also have limited their ability to resist .