In modern Zimbabwe , it is not the Viscount shootdowns but rather the retributory Rhodesian strikes against nationalist guerrilla camps that endure predominantly in the cultural memory . State media in Zimbabwe , prominently the Herald newspaper , often claim that Rhodesian forces indiscriminately and deliberately slaughtered thousands of helpless refugees during such operations . ZIPRA 's downing of civilian planes is meanwhile portrayed as a legitimate act of war on the grounds that the guerrillas might have believed them to have military personnel or equipment on board . The massacre of surviving Flight 825 passengers at the crash site is often omitted or attributed to forces other than ZIPRA ; in his 1984 memoirs Nkomo repeated his claim that ZIPRA fighters had helped the survivors , and wrote simply that " I truly have no idea how the ten died " .A monument to those killed in the Rhodesian attack on Chikumbi was built in Zambia in 1998 , and dedicated jointly by the Zambian and Zimbabwean governments . A memorial to the victims of the two Rhodesian Viscount incidents , dubbed the Viscount Memorial , was erected on the grounds of the Voortrekker Monument in Pretoria , South Africa in 2012 , and inaugurated on 1 September that year . The names of the dead passengers and crew are engraved on two granite slabs that stand upright , side by side , the pair topped by an emblem symbolising an aircraft . A pole beside the monument flies the Rhodesian flag .A British parliamentary motion put forward by Labour MP Kate Hoey in February 2013 to retrospectively condemn the Viscount attacks and memorialise the victims on the anniversary of the second shootdown prompted outcry in the Zimbabwean press , with the Herald branding it a racist " Rhodie motion " intended to antagonise the Mugabe administration and its supporters . Dumiso Dabengwa , a former ZIPRA commander , described the move as a provocation motivated by race that went against the spirit of the amnesty enacted at Lancaster House . Christopher Mutsvangwa , a diplomat and political analyst , took a similar line , calling Hoey 's proposed commemoration " a provocation ... [ that ] means they only regard the death of white people alone during the struggle . There is no mention of what happened to our sons and daughters in and outside the country . " ZAPU 's official response to Hoey 's motion included the assertion that in all conflicts " civilians get caught up in cross @-@ fires due to faulty intelligence reports and other communication errors " , and juxtaposed the civilians killed in the Viscount shootdowns with those killed at Chikumbi .