Die Another Day had its world premiere on 18 November 2002 at the Royal Albert Hall in London . Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip were guests of honour , making it the second Bond film premiere to be attended by the Queen , the first one being You Only Live Twice in 1967 . The Royal Albert Hall had a make @-@ over for the screening and had been transformed into an ice palace . Proceeds from the première , about £ 500 @,@ 000 , were donated to the Cinema and Television Benevolent Fund of which the Queen is patron . On the first day , ticket sales reached £ 1 @.@ 2 million . Die Another Day was the highest grossing James Bond film until the release of Casino Royale . It earned $ 432 million worldwide , becoming the sixth highest grossing film of 2002 .Die Another Day became a controversial subject in eastern Asia . The North Korean government disliked the portrayal of their state as brutal and war @-@ hungry . The South Koreans boycotted 145 theatres where it was released on 31 December 2002 , as they were offended by the scene in which an American officer issues orders to the South Korean army in the defence of their homeland , and by a lovemaking scene near a statue of the Buddha . The Jogye Buddhist Order issued a statement that the film was " disrespectful to our religion and does not reflect our values and ethics " . The Washington Post reported growing resentment in the nation towards the United States . An official of the South Korean Ministry of Culture and Tourism said that Die Another Day was " the wrong film at the wrong time . "The amount of product placement in the film was a point of criticism , specifically from various news outlets such as the BBC , Time and Reuters who all used the pun " Buy Another Day " . Reportedly 20 companies , paying $ 70 million , had their products featured in the film , a record at the time , although USA Today reported that number to be as high as $ 100 million . By choice , the number of companies involved in product placement was dropped to eight for the next Bond film Casino Royale in 2006 .Rotten Tomatoes listed Die Another Day with a 58 % rating . Metacritic gave the film a 56 out of 100 rating , representing " mixed or average reviews . " Michael Dequina of Film Threat praised the film as the best of the series to star Pierce Brosnan and " the most satisfying installment of the franchise in recent memory . " Larry Carroll of CountingDown.com praised Lee Tamahori for having " magnificently balanced the film so that it keeps true to the Bond legend , makes reference to the classic films that preceded it , but also injects a new zest to it all . " Entertainment Weekly magazine also gave a positive reaction , saying that Tamahori , " a true filmmaker " , has re @-@ established the series ' pop sensuality . Dana Stevens of The New York Times called the film the best of the James Bond series since The Spy Who Loved Me . Kyle Bell of Movie Freaks 365 stated in his review that the " first half of Die Another Day is classic Bond " , but that " Things start to go downhill when the ice palace gets introduced . "However , Die Another Day was strongly criticised by some reviewers who felt that the film relied too heavily on gadgets and special effects , with the plot being neglected . James Berardinelli of Reelviews.net said , " This is a train wreck of an action film – a stupefying attempt by the filmmakers to force @-@ feed James Bond into the mindless xXx mold and throw 40 years of cinematic history down the toilet in favor of bright flashes and loud bangs . " Of the action sequences , he said , " Die Another Day is an exercise in loud explosions and excruciatingly bad special effects . The CGI work in this movie is an order of magnitude worse than anything I have seen in a major motion picture . Coupled with lousy production design , Die Another Day looks like it was done on the cheap . Gary Brown of the Houston Community Newspapers also described the weak point of the film as " the seemingly non @-@ stop action sequences and loud explosions that appear to take centre stage while the Bond character is almost relegated to second string . " Roger Moore remarked , " I thought it just went too far – and that ’ s from me , the first Bond in space ! Invisible cars and dodgy CGI footage ? Please ! "