McCarty played high school football for the St. Thomas More Knights in Burnaby , British Columbia beginning in 1998 , playing as both a running back and middle linebacker on the Grade 8 team . He quickly became a key player on the team , including rushing for 185 yards and four touchdowns while adding 10 defensive tackles in the Grade 8 provincial semi @-@ finals on November 24 against the Handsworth Royals . For that performance , he was named " Star of the Week " by The Vancouver Sun . The Knights went on to defeat the Vancouver College Fighting Irish 48 – 0 in the Grade 8 B.C. championship game , where McCarty scored another three touchdowns .The following year , McCarty joined the senior team at St. Thomas More , skipping the junior team entirely . He continued in his role as a running back while switching to the secondary defensively . Despite being a rare Grade 9 player on the senior team , he was one of the Knights ' two leading rushers that year . McCarty scored a touchdown in the AAA B.C. championship game , helping the Knights win their first senior title as they beat the Pinetree T @-@ Wolves 29 – 6 . While K.C. Steele , the Knights ' coach , has a policy of not recording player statistics , it is estimated that McCarty finished 1999 with over 1 @,@ 000 rushing yards and 15 touchdowns .In 2000 , McCarty played a significant role in the Knights ' rushing and return game . He rushed for 150 yards and three touchdowns against the Burnaby Central Wildcats in the annual Burnaby Bowl , adding two punt returns for touchdowns . By the end of October , the Knights had compiled a perfect 6 – 0 record , and defensive coordinator and former CFL defensive back Lou Deslauriers called McCarty " the best player for his age and talent that we 've ever had at our school " . He recorded 238 yards and four consecutive touchdowns with only 23 carries in the Knights ' 46 – 12 victory over the W. J. Mouat Hawks in the AAA championship game . For his role in earning the Knights their second AAA title , McCarty was named the game 's MVP , becoming the youngest player to earn this award .McCarty remained a presence on the field for the Knights in 2001 , expanding his role by playing some snaps as a fullback . He rushed for 160 yards in that year 's Burnaby Bowl , including three touchdowns as a halfback and one as a fullback . McCarty had another notable performance in a 67 – 7 blowout against the South Delta Sun Devils , running for 200 yards and three touchdowns . He also showed himself to be a capable receiver , including making five catches for 66 yards in a match against the Holy Cross Crusaders . McCarty also finished that game with 110 yards and two touchdowns on only three carries . Despite giving up only 19 points during the entire regular season , the Knights lost 32 – 26 in the quarter @-@ finals of the playoffs against the Centennial Centaurs after McCarty was stopped one yard away from the endzone on the last play of the game .As a senior , McCarty recorded 2 @,@ 400 yards and scored 33 touchdowns in just nine games , averaging 266 @.@ 7 yards and over three touchdowns per game . He ran for 380 yards and three touchdowns in a 21 – 20 loss against the W. J. Mouat Hawks in the quarter @-@ finals of the AAA playoffs . He was named the 2002 Provincial Player of the Year for his performance and finished his four @-@ year AAA career at St. Thomas More with 84 touchdowns , breaking a school record .