The 1985 Rajneeshee assassination plot was a conspiracy by a group of high @-@ ranking followers of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh ( later known as Osho ) to assassinate Charles Turner , the then @-@ United States Attorney for the District of Oregon . Rajneesh 's personal secretary and second @-@ in @-@ command , Ma Anand Sheela ( Sheela Silverman ) , assembled the group after Turner was appointed to investigate illegal activity at Rajneeshpuram . Turner investigated charges of immigration fraud and sham marriages , and later headed the federal prosecution of the 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack in The Dalles , Oregon .The conspirators included : Ma Anand Sheela , Sally @-@ Anne Croft , Chief Financial Officer of Rajneeshpuram ; Susan Hagan , head of security at Rajneeshpuram , Catherine Jane Stork , who bought weapons and silencers and volunteered to be the actual murderer ; Ann Phyllis McCarthy , fourth @-@ in @-@ command of Rajneeshpuram ; and co @-@ conspirators Alma Potter , Carol Matthews , Phyllis Caldwell and Richard Kevin Langford . The conspirators obtained false identification to purchase handguns out @-@ of @-@ state , stalked Turner , and planned to murder him near his workplace in Portland , Oregon . The assassination plot was never carried out and was only discovered later , as a result of the investigation by federal law enforcement into the bioterror attack in The Dalles and other illegal acts by the Rajneeshpuram leadership .Prosecution of the conspirators began in 1990 , when a federal grand jury brought indictments against several of the key players . Some had fled the country , and extradition proceedings against the perpetrators and subsequent prosecution and conviction was not completed for sixteen years . The final conspirator was convicted in 2006 , when Catherine Jane Stork agreed to return to the United States from Germany in order to be allowed to visit her ill son in Australia . Eight perpetrators received sentences ranging from five years probation to five years in federal prison and an additional member of the Rajneesh commune pleaded guilty to murder conspiracy . Rajneesh was never prosecuted in relation to the conspiracy , and left the United States after pleading guilty to immigration fraud and agreeing not to reenter the country without permission from the U.S. Attorney General .