The closest large modern settlements are Flores and Santa Elena , approximately 64 kilometres ( 40 mi ) by road to the southwest . Tikal is approximately 303 kilometres ( 188 mi ) north of Guatemala City . It is 19 kilometres ( 12 mi ) south of the contemporary Maya city of Uaxactun and 30 kilometres ( 19 mi ) northwest of Yaxha . The city was located 100 kilometres ( 62 mi ) southeast of its great Classic Period rival , Calakmul , and 85 kilometres ( 53 mi ) northwest of Calakmul 's ally Caracol , now in Belize .The city has been completely mapped and covered an area greater than 16 square kilometres ( 6 @.@ 2 sq mi ) that included about 3 @,@ 000 structures . The topography of the site consists of a series of parallel limestone ridges rising above swampy lowlands . The major architecture of the site is clustered upon areas of higher ground and linked by raised causeways spanning the swamps . The area around Tikal has been declared as the Tikal National Park and the preserved area covers 570 square kilometres ( 220 sq mi ) .The ruins lie among the tropical rainforests of northern Guatemala that formed the cradle of lowland Maya civilization . The city itself was located among abundant fertile upland soils , and may have dominated a natural east – west trade route across the Yucatan Peninsula . Conspicuous trees at the Tikal park include gigantic kapok ( Ceiba pentandra ) the sacred tree of the Maya ; tropical cedar ( Cedrela odorata ) , and Honduras mahogany ( Swietenia macrophylla ) . Regarding the fauna , agouti , white @-@ nosed coatis , gray foxes , Geoffroy 's spider monkeys , howler monkeys , harpy eagles , falcons , ocellated turkeys , guans , toucans , green parrots and leafcutter ants can be seen there regularly . Jaguars , jaguarundis , and cougars are also said to roam in the park . For centuries this city was completely covered under jungle . The average annual rainfall at Tikal is 1 @,@ 945 millimetres ( 76 @.@ 6 in ) .One of the largest of the Classic Maya cities , Tikal had no water other than what was collected from rainwater and stored in ten reservoirs . Archaeologists working in Tikal during the 20th century refurbished one of these ancient reservoirs to store water for their own use .The Tikal National Park covers an area of 575 @.@ 83 square kilometres ( 222 @.@ 33 sq mi ) . It was created on 26 May 1955 under the auspices of the Instituto de Antropología e Historia and was the first protected area in Guatemala .