Australia 's involvement in the Vietnam War was driven largely by the rise of communism in Southeast Asia after the Second World War , and the fear of its spread which developed in Australia during the 1950s and early 1960s . As a consequence , Australia supported South Vietnam throughout the early 1960s . In 1961 and 1962 , the leader of the South Vietnamese government , Ngo Dinh Diem , asked for assistance from the US and its allies in response to a growing insurgency supported by communist North Vietnam . Australia offered 30 military advisors from the Australian Army Training Team Vietnam , which became known simply as " The Team " . They arrived in July and August 1962 , beginning Australia 's involvement in the war . Later in August 1964 , the RAAF sent a flight of Caribou transport aircraft to the port city of Vung Tau .However , with the security situation in South Vietnam continuing to deteriorate , the US increased its involvement to 200 @,@ 000 combat troops by early 1965 . Australia also committed ground forces , dispatching the 1 RAR to serve with the US 173rd Airborne Brigade in Bien Hoa province in June 1965 and it subsequently fought a number of significant actions , including Gang Toi , Operation Crimp and Suoi Bong Trang . In March 1966 , the Australian government announced the deployment of a brigade @-@ sized unit — the 1st Australian Task Force ( 1 ATF ) — to replace 1 RAR . Included were a large number of conscripts , under the increasingly controversial National Service Scheme . Consisting of two infantry battalions as well as armour , aviation , artillery and other support arms , the task force was assigned primary responsibility for its own area and was based at Nui Dat , in Phuoc Tuy Province . Included were the Iroquois helicopters of No. 9 Squadron RAAF . At the Battle of Long Tan on 18 August 1966 , D Company , 6 RAR with considerable artillery support held off and defeated a Viet Cong force that was at least six times bigger than itself . 18 Australians were killed and 24 wounded , while 245 communist dead were later recovered from the battlefield . The battle allowed the Australians to gain dominance over Phuoc Tuy Province and 1 ATF was not fundamentally challenged again . Regardless , during February 1967 the Australians suffered their heaviest casualties in the war to that point , losing 16 men killed and 55 wounded in a single week , the bulk during Operation Bribie .Yet with the Phuoc Tuy province coming progressively under control throughout 1967 , the Australians increasingly spent a significant period of time conducting operations further afield . 1 ATF was subsequently deployed astride infiltration routes leading to Saigon to interdict communist movement against the capital as part of Operation Coburg during the 1968 Tet Offensive and later during the Battle of Coral – Balmoral in May and June 1968 . At Fire Support Bases Coral and Balmoral the Australians had clashed with regular North Vietnamese Army and Viet Cong main force units operating in battalion and regimental strength for the first time in near conventional warfare , ultimately fighting their largest , most hazardous and most sustained battle of the war . During 26 days of fighting Australian casualties included 25 killed and 99 wounded , while communist casualties included 267 killed confirmed by body count , 60 possibly killed , 7 wounded and 11 captured . Other significant Australian actions included Binh Ba in June 1969 , Hat Dich in late @-@ December 1968 and early 1969 and Long Khanh in June 1971 . At the height of the Australian commitment , 1 ATF numbered 8 @,@ 500 troops , including three infantry battalions , armour , artillery , engineers , logistics and aviation units in support . A third RAAF unit , No. 2 Squadron RAAF , flying Canberra bombers , was sent in 1967 , and four RAN destroyers joined US patrols in the waters off North Vietnam .The Australian withdrawal effectively commenced in November 1970 . As a consequence of the overall allied strategy of Vietnamization and with the Australian government keen to reduce its own commitment to the war , 8 RAR was not replaced at the end of its tour of duty . 1 ATF was again reduced to just two infantry battalions , albeit with significant armour , artillery and aviation support remaining . Australian combat forces were further reduced during 1971 as part of a phased withdrawal , and 1 ATF ceased operations in October . Meanwhile , the advisors remained to train South Vietnamese troops until withdrawn on 18 December 1972 by the newly elected Labor government of Gough Whitlam . The last Australian forces were finally withdrawn in 1973 . The Vietnam War was Australia 's longest and most controversial war and although initially enjoying broad support , as the nation 's military involvement increased a vocal anti @-@ war movement developed . More than 50 @,@ 000 Australians served in Vietnam ; 519 were killed and 2 @,@ 398 were wounded . Four were awarded the Victoria Cross .