From the 1920s Australia 's defence thinking was dominated by British Imperial defence policy , which was embodied by the " Singapore strategy " . This strategy involved the construction and defence of a major naval base at Singapore from which a large British fleet would respond to Japanese aggression in the region . To this end , a high proportion of Australian forces in Asia were concentrated in Malaya during 1940 and 1941 as the threat from Japan increased . However , as a result of the emphasis on co @-@ operation with Britain , relatively few Australian military units had been retained in Australia and the Asia @-@ Pacific region . Measures were taken to improve Australia 's defences as war with Japan loomed in 1941 , but these proved inadequate . In December 1941 , the Australian Army in the Pacific comprised the 8th Division , most of which was stationed in Malaya , and eight partially trained and equipped divisions in Australia . The RAAF was equipped with 373 aircraft , most of which were obsolete trainers , and the RAN had three cruisers and two destroyers in Australian waters .The Australian military suffered a series of defeats during the early months of the Pacific War . The 8th Division and RAAF squadrons in Malaya formed a part of the British Commonwealth forces which were unable to stop a smaller Japanese invasion force which landed on 7 December . The British Commonwealth force withdrew to Singapore at the end of January , but was forced to surrender on 15 February after the Japanese captured much of the island . Smaller Australian forces were also overwhelmed and defeated during early 1942 at Rabaul , and in Ambon , Timor , and Java . The Australian town of Darwin was heavily bombed by the Japanese on 19 February , to prevent it from being used as an Allied base . Over 22 @,@ 000 Australians were taken prisoner in early 1942 and endured harsh conditions in Japanese captivity . The prisoners were subjected to malnutrition , denied medical treatment and frequently beaten and killed by their guards . As a result , 8 @,@ 296 Australian prisoners died in captivity .The rapid Allied defeat in the Pacific caused many Australians to fear that the Japanese would invade the Australian mainland . While elements of the Imperial Japanese Navy proposed this in early 1942 , it was judged to be impossible by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters , which instead adopted a strategy of isolating Australia from the United States by capturing New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Fiji , Samoa , and New Caledonia . This fact was not known by the Allies at the time , and the Australian military was greatly expanded to meet the threat of invasion . Large numbers of United States Army and Army Air Forces units arrived in Australia in early 1942 , and the Australian military was placed under the overall command of General Douglas MacArthur in March .Australians played a central role in the New Guinea campaign during 1942 and 1943 . After an attempt to land troops at Port Moresby was defeated in the Battle of the Coral Sea , the Japanese attempted to capture the strategically important town by advancing overland across the Owen Stanley Ranges and Milne Bay . Australian Army units defeated these offensives in the Kokoda Track campaign and Battle of Milne Bay with the support of the RAAF and USAAF . Australian and US Army units subsequently assaulted and captured the Japanese bases on the north coast of Papua in the hard @-@ fought Battle of Buna @-@ Gona . The Australian Army also defeated a Japanese attempt to capture the town of Wau in January 1943 and went onto the offensive in the Salamaua @-@ Lae campaign in April . In late 1943 , the 7th and 9th Divisions played an important role in Operation Cartwheel , when they landed to the east and west of Lae and secured the Huon Peninsula during the Huon Peninsula campaign and Finisterre Range campaign .The Australian mainland came under attack during 1942 and 1943 . Japanese submarines operated off Australia from May to August 1942 and January to June 1943 . These attacks sought to cut the Allied supply lines between Australia and the US and Australia and New Guinea , but were unsuccessful . Japanese aircraft also conducted air raids against Allied bases in northern Australia which were being used to mount the North Western Area Campaign against Japanese positions in the Netherlands East Indies ( NEI ) .Australia 's role in the Pacific War declined from 1944 . The increasing size of the US forces in the Pacific rendered the Australian military superfluous and labour shortages forced the Government to reduce the size of the armed forces to boost war production . Nevertheless , the Government wanted the Australian military to remain active , and agreed to MacArthur 's proposals that it be used in relatively unimportant campaigns . In late 1944 , Australian troops and RAAF squadrons replaced US garrisons in eastern New Guinea , New Britain , and Bougainville , and launched offensives aimed at destroying or containing the remaining Japanese forces there . In May 1945 , I Corps , the Australian First Tactical Air Force and USAAF and USN units began the Borneo Campaign , which continued until the end of the war . These campaigns contributed little to Japan 's defeat and remain controversial .Following Japan 's surrender on 15 August 1945 Australia assumed responsibility for occupying much of Borneo and the eastern Netherlands East Indies until British and Dutch colonial rule was restored . Australian authorities also conducted a number of war crimes trials of Japanese personnel . 993 @,@ 000 Australians enlisted during the war , while 557 @,@ 000 served overseas . Casualties included 39 @,@ 767 killed and another 66 @,@ 553 were wounded . 20 Victoria Crosses were awarded to Australians .