Following the outbreak of World War II , No. 1 Squadron was engaged in convoy escort and maritime reconnaissance duties off south @-@ eastern Australia . Headlam continued to serve with the squadron as a flight commander until 15 January 1940 , when he was assigned to Headquarters Laverton as the station navigation officer . On 27 March he was posted to the staff of RAAF Headquarters , Melbourne . He was promoted to squadron leader on 1 June 1940 . Two weeks later he married Katherine Bridge at St Paul 's Anglican Church in Frankston ; the couple would have a son and a daughter .Headlam was given command of No. 2 Squadron at Laverton on 15 April 1941 , and raised to wing commander on 1 July . Equipped with Lockheed Hudsons , the squadron mainly conducted maritime patrols in southern waters until 5 December , when four of its aircraft were ordered to Darwin , Northern Territory , in response to fears of Japanese aggression in the Pacific . On 7 December , this detachment established itself at Penfui , near Koepang in Dutch Timor , while No. 2 Squadron 's eight remaining Hudsons were stationed at Darwin on standby . The following day , aware that Australia was now at war in the Pacific , one of the Penfui @-@ based Hudsons attacked the Japanese pearler Nanyo Maru , which was suspected of being a radio ship , and forced it aground . By 12 December , Headlam had transferred to Penfui as commanding officer of the base , as well as No. 2 Squadron .During January 1942 , No. 2 Squadron 's aircraft were dispersed at Penfui , Boeroe Island , and Darwin . The Penfui detachment attacked Japanese shipping taking part in the invasion of Celebes . Two Hudsons shot down or damaged three Japanese floatplanes that attacked them as they were bombing a transport ship on 11 January ; the next day both Hudsons were themselves shot down by Mitsubishi Zeros . Penfui was bombed by the Japanese for the first time on 26 January 1942 , and attacked regularly thereafter , damaging some aircraft . The intact Hudsons were withdrawn to Darwin but Headlam and his staff remained at Penfui to enable the base to be used by aircraft during reconnaissance missions from Australia . On 18 February , Headlam was ordered to evacuate all his personnel except a small party to demolish the airfield with assistance from Sparrow Force . He returned to Darwin the following day , just as the city experienced its first raid by the Japanese . Four of No. 2 Squadron 's Hudsons were destroyed in the attack ; the remainder were relocated to Daly Waters , where they continued to carry out reconnaissance and bombing missions against Japanese targets in Timor .Headlam remained in Darwin as Controller of Operations at Headquarters North @-@ Western Area Command until 12 May 1942 , when he was posted to Nhill , Victoria , as commanding officer of No. 2 Air Navigation School , operating Ansons . No. 97 ( Reserve ) Squadron was formed from the school 's personnel in June . On 20 July 1943 , Headlam took command of No. 2 Air Observer School ( AOS ) , also operating Ansons , at Mount Gambier , South Australia . He was promoted to group captain on 1 December 1943 , and was appointed the inaugural commanding officer of No. 3 AOS , operating Ansons and Fairey Battles out of Port Pirie , on 9 December . After handing over command of No. 3 AOS , he commenced studies at RAAF Staff School in Mount Martha , Victoria , on 2 October 1944 . He was appointed senior administrative staff officer at North @-@ Western Area Command on 12 January 1945 .