On June 16 , 2011 , a trough situated off the southern coast of Guatemala showed signs of possible tropical cyclogenesis . Though located within an area favoring development , the system remained broad and disorganized as it moved slowly west @-@ northwestward . Gradually , convection consolidated around an area of low pressure . On June 18 , a Tropical Cyclone Formation Alert was issued for the system as it was expected to develop into a tropical depression within 24 hours . On the following day , the low further developed and was declared Tropical Depression Two @-@ E by the National Hurricane Center at 1500 UTC . Upon being declared , the depression was located about 335 mi ( 540 km ) south @-@ southeast of Lázaro Cárdenas , Mexico . However , after post @-@ analysis , the depression had actually developed nine hours earlier . Maintaining a west @-@ northwesterly track in response to a subtropical ridge to the north , the depression was forecast to move into a favorable environment , characterized by low wind shear and sea surface temperatures up to 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) . Three hours after classification , the depression strengthened Tropical Storm Beatriz , the second named storm of the season .Early on June 20 , convection increased markedly with several overshooting tops ( denoted by cloud @-@ top temperatures below − 80 ° C ( − 112 ° F ) ) appearing on satellite imagery . A notable increase in southerly outflow also took place . As the subtropical ridge north of the storm weakened , Beatriz acquired a more northerly component to its track , bringing the center of the storm closer to Mexico . Convective bands gradually wrapped around the system throughout the day . During the afternoon hours of June 20 , a hurricane hunter aircraft found Beatriz just below hurricane strength , and subsequently , the system was upgraded just a few hours later , while situated roughly 85 mi ( 140 km ) southeast of Manzanillo , Mexico . Early on June 21 , a 23 to 29 mi ( 37 to 47 km ) wide eye developed within the central dense overcast . In light of this , the National Hurricane Center estimated Beatriz to have attained winds of 90 mph ( 150 km / h ) along with a barometric pressure of 977 mbar ( hPa ; 28 @.@ 85 inHg ) ; however , it was noted that this could be conservative based on estimates of 105 mph ( 165 km / h ) from the University of Wisconsin and the Satellite Analysis Branch .Throughout the morning of June 21 , Beatriz brushed the coast of Mexico , with the center passing roughly 15 mi ( 20 km ) south @-@ southeast of La Fortuna , Mexico . Centered just off the coast of Mexico , the system interacted with land and began weakening . Hours later , convection rapidly diminished as dry air became entrained in the circulation . In response to quick degradation of the system 's structure , the NHC downgraded Beatriz to a tropical storm . Rapid weakening continued throughout the day and by the evening hours , the storm no longer had a defined circulation . Lacking an organized center and deep convection , the final advisory was issued on Beatriz . The storm 's remnants persisted for several more hours before dissipating roughly 175 mi ( 280 km ) southwest of Cabo Corrientes , Mexico .