In 1990 , Sega ordered its in @-@ house development studio , AM8 , to develop a game featuring a mascot for the company . This was a position already held by the character Alex Kidd , but he was considered similar to Mario and deemed unsatisfactory ; Sega president Hayao Nakayama wanted a character as iconic as Mickey Mouse . Sega had competition from Nintendo and its mascot , Mario , in mind ; Nintendo was dominant at the time , particularly after the release of the successful Super Mario Bros. 3 , and Sega wanted a foothold in the industry . Although the company had some success with Genesis ports of its arcade titles , it knew this would not be enough .AM8 developed ideas for characters , an engine , and gameplay mechanics . Development emphasized speed , so AM8 eliminated character designs not associated with fast animals , as well as fast creatures like kangaroos and squirrels . One idea , a rabbit able to grasp objects with prehensile ears , showed promise at first but was too complex for the available hardware . The team narrowed its search to animals that can roll into a ball , their idea for an attacking move . Designers then realized that this would not seem aggressive enough , so they focused on two animals with spikes : armadillos and hedgehogs . The hedgehog character , first proposed by Naoto Ohshima , prevailed , although the armadillo would later become the basis for Mighty the Armadillo ( who first appeared in 1993 's SegaSonic the Hedgehog ) . Ohshima has admitted since that he created Sonic 's basic design by combining Felix the Cat 's head with Mickey Mouse 's body .Sonic was originally teal @-@ colored , then a light shade of blue , but he was changed to dark blue so he would stand out against certain backgrounds and to match the Sega logo . His shoes were colored red through the inspiration of Michael Jackson 's boots on the album cover for Bad and the outfit of Santa Claus , whom Ohshima saw as the most " famous character in the world " . Sonic 's spikes were emphasized to make him look sleeker , and he was given the ability to spin while jumping ( so attacking and jumping could be controlled with one button ) . The new character was originally named " Mr. Needlemouse " , but the eight @-@ member AM8 changed his name to " Sonic " and their studios to Sonic Team . Ideas proposed to flesh out the character included placing him in a rock band , giving him vampire fangs , and giving him a human girlfriend named Madonna , but Sega of America scrapped these ideas to keep his identity simple . Sega of America also expressed concerns that most Americans would not know what a hedgehog is and initially proposed a full @-@ scale recreation of the character , but compromised with Sonic Team to simply make design changes . The antagonist ended up being named " Dr. Eggman " in Japan and " Dr. Robotnik " in other regions as a result of a dispute between Sega 's American and Japanese divisions .