After obtaining guns the conspirators returned to Portland , Oregon . They rented out an apartment in Portland to serve as their base of operations for the assassination of Turner . Rajneesh follower Carol Matthews ( Ma Prem Samadhi ) used a fake name during the planning of the assassination plot , in an attempt to obtain the home address of Charles Turner . According to federal prosecutors Matthews obtained a college yearbook of Turner 's , and learned his car 's license plate number and his parking location . Court records state that Matthews and an unindicted co @-@ conspirator gave voter registration officials fake identities and told officials they were conducting " a voter survey on President Reagan 's economic plan " , in order to obtain Turner 's route number and post office box number . The two tried repeating the story with members of the U.S. Postal Service , but the postal officials did not give them Turner 's address . They then drove around Turner 's neighborhood and were able to find his home by locating a sign in front of his residence that said " Turner " . Matthews had pictures of Turner 's residence developed ; these were later obtained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) during an investigation of the Rajneesh commune , and verified after being shown to Turner .Members of the group of conspirators watched Turner 's office , home and car , and discussed methods to assassinate him , hoping that his death would hinder the efforts of the federal investigation into Rajneeshpuram . Their plan was to shoot Turner in the garage of the federal office building where he worked , in Portland , Oregon , but the conspirators also debated whether to murder Turner in downtown Portland or closer to his home . After spending multiple nights watching Turner 's house , the conspirators decided on the parking garage because they felt it would be too risky to murder him on the drive to or from work , or in front of his home . Turner had a reserved parking spot in a federal garage underneath Terry Schrunk Plaza in Portland , Oregon . In an affidavit given to the FBI , conspirator Alma Peralta described how the perpetrators decided on the federal parking garage as the location : " Shanti Bhadra [ Catherine Jane Stork ] said this seems like a good place to bump this fellow off . "The conspirators practiced different ways of murdering Turner . According to informant statements to law enforcement , one of the conspirators was to pretend there was car trouble , and the others would then approach Turner with their guns . Informants later told law enforcement officials that the conspirators intended to hide out at an international network of Rajneesh communes if the plan was successful . According to The Oregonian the assassinations were not carried out because Ma Anand Sheela became distracted by political power plays within the Rajneesh commune and other members of the organization who were trying to remove her from her position within the group .