Scientology first became active in Germany in 1970 . By 2007 , there were ten major centres ( " Scientology Churches " ) , as well as fourteen minor centres ( " Scientology Missions " ) in Germany . The German Scientology Churches are located in the big cities – Munich , Hamburg , Berlin , Düsseldorf , Frankfurt am Main , Hanover and Stuttgart . Of the Scientology Missions , nine are in Baden @-@ Württemberg , and three in Bavaria . Following German re @-@ unification , Scientology proved unable to gain significant numbers of followers in the territories of the former German Democratic Republic ; most adherents are found in Baden @-@ Württemberg , Bavaria and North @-@ Rhine Westphalia .Scientology is represented by a large number of independent associations or Vereine in Germany ; their umbrella organisation is the Scientology Kirche Deutschland e.V. Germany 's domestic intelligence service , the Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz ( BfV , or Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution ) , estimates that there are 4 @,@ 000 Scientologists in Germany , down from earlier estimates of 5 @,@ 000 to 6 @,@ 000 . The Church of Scientology reported around 30 @,@ 000 members from the mid @-@ 1990s onwards ; this number remained stable for many years . However more recently Scientology has said it has only 12 @,@ 000 members . Discrepancies in Scientology membership numbers arise because the Church of Scientology applies more inclusive criteria in establishing its figures , essentially including anyone who has purchased a book or participated in courses , regardless of their subsequent involvement . The number of contractually bound Scientology staff members working in German Scientology organizations is unlikely to exceed a few hundred .Scientology formulated a " Clear Germany " strategy in 1994 – similar to equivalent strategies pursued by Scientology in other countries and regions of the world – with the long @-@ term aim of transforming German society in line with the Scientological ideal : a non @-@ pluralist society in which Scientology enjoys overriding influence . The programme sought to address Scientology 's image problems in Germany , to identify weak points in Germany that could be exploited for political gain , such as Germany 's National Socialist history , and to increase both membership figures and political influence in German society , with a special emphasis on manoeuvring Scientologists into key positions in industry and government . As most religions seek to widen their influence in society , such a programme could of course also be defended as a missionary effort , much like those many religions engage in . However , according to the BfV , the strategy has not had any significant success . By 1998 , 90 government officials had been suspected of being Scientologists and in 48 cases the suspicions were confirmed , but apart from some isolated cases , most of the officials concerned had not used their positions to advertise Scientology . According to Fifka & Sydora ( 2009 ) , it is unknown to what degree the " Clear Germany " programme is still being pursued .