From 7 February 2006 to 9 December 2008 , Ayola starred in BBC medical drama Holby City as nurse Kyla Tyson . She had previously appeared in Holby City 's sister show Casualty , and had made an appearance in Holby City 's fifth series as patient Marianne Lawson . She was approached about returning to the show in a more permanent role by BBC casting director Julie Harkin . After a series of three meetings , a year after the birth of her first child , she agreed to assume the role of Kyla , despite being " nervous about signing such a long contract " , stating : " I 've been someone who 's loved the uncertainty of acting . I 've loved that one month it 's Sahara in Morocco and the next I 'm doing a stage play , then it 's a six @-@ part telly thing . But last summer I started thinking it would be really nice not to have to look for a job every couple of weeks . It would be nice just to stay put for a while . If I 'm going to be a working mum I 'd rather just be one rather than be one intermittently . And then Holby came along , so I 'm very grateful " .Ayola signed a three @-@ year contract to play Kyla , and described herself as " very similar " to her character , speaking positively about her working relationship with co @-@ stars Jaye Jacobs and Sharon D. Clarke , as well as the " dream " storylines her character was given . She said of the show :" I really love Holby and I 'm surprised how much . What thrills me about Holby is that you get back what you put in . The powers that be are only as interested in you as they think you are in the job . For me it 's about more than turning up and saying the lines . It 's about understanding it and trying to make it better . That 's actually a lot of fun . What 's great is nobody says , ' Just shut up . ' They want you to work at it . [ ... ] I surprise myself sometimes because after two and a half years sometimes I see friends on the side of a poster and I think , ' do I want to do something else ? ' but I really like this job , I never get that awful ‘ dread ’ feeling when you really don ’ t want to go into work . "In October 2008 , Ayola announced that she would be departing from Holby City in order to have a second child , stating : " I 've had a great time and I 'll miss it . I made the decision purely because I was pregnant , but I wasn 't really ready to put down the character of Kyla . I 'm very sorry to have to let her go . "