" The Same Old Story " received mixed reviews from television critics . TV Squad writer Jane Boursaw thought the episode seemed " all over the place " , and wasn 't sure what to think . She stated the two most interesting parts of the episode were when Walter removed the girl 's eye in order to identity her killer , and the cliffhanger at the very end , when Walter states " If you 've read my file , then you know the truth about Peter 's medical history " . Travis Fickett of IGN thought it was better than the pilot ; though it was " laden with lots of clunky exposition and clichéd dialogue , " Fickett understood that it was needed to acquaint new viewers to the show . Fickett concluded his review by saying Fringe has the potential to be a " great show " , and he also praised the production level as " top notch " , and Torv 's performance as " very good " as she " brings a unique presence to the show " . The A.V. Club critic Noel Murray gave the episode a C + , while Television Without Pity graded it with a B.Josh Jackson of Paste Magazine disliked the " deus ex machina " aspects that " neatly solved the puzzles of the first two episodes " , and also criticized perceived " plot contrivances " like how the serial murderer immediately began aging once interrupted from killing his last victim . Despite these flaws , Jackson said he would tune in next week because he would " rather have a show err on the side of unbelievable than unremarkable , and I 'm interested to see if Abrams has any more tricks up his sleeve " . Erin Fox of TV Guide also liked " The Same Old Story " better than the pilot because she thought that it " had really cool special effects , awesome Walter @-@ isms , and actual chemistry forming between Olivia and Peter " , and " we also got to delve more into the connections between Walter , Nina Sharp , Massive Dynamic and the government and the experiments they conducted before Walter was institutionalized " .A UGO Networks columnist was concerned that the expensive pilot would be hard to translate into weekly episodes , but " after sitting down to watch Fringe 's second episode , " The Same Old Story " , my concerns have vanished . Fringe 's second episode represents all that is holy about genre programming without sacrificing any of Fringe 's eleven @-@ herbs and spices . In fact , the subtle framework of what makes Fringe not X @-@ Files is even better defined in the first weekly @-@ episode . I 'd struggled to find the word to describe it , and the winner is ' condensed ' . " The Same Old Story " has all of the sense of mystery , discovery , and humor that the pilot had just in a smaller , more combustible space . " Another UGO writer , Alex Zalben , later compared " The Same Old Story " to the similarly @-@ plotted The X @-@ Files episode " Død Kalm " . Zalben concluded that " Fringe wins this one , just for having a slightly less stupid explanation . "