Ringo Starr identified his initial inspiration for " Back Off Boogaloo " as having come from Marc Bolan , the singer and guitarist with English glam rock band T. Rex . In a 2001 interview with Mojo editor Paul Du Noyer , Starr described Bolan as " a dear friend who used to come into the office when I was running Apple Movies , a big office in town , and the hang @-@ out for myself , Harry Nilsson and Keith Moon " . Over dinner one evening at Starr 's home outside London , Bolan had used the word " boogaloo " so often that it stuck in Starr 's mind , after which the beat and melody for the song came to him overnight . When discussing the composition on VH1 Storytellers in May 1998 , Starr explained : " [ Bolan ] was an energised guy . He used to speak : ' Back off boogaloo ... ooh you , boogaloo . ' ' Do you want some potatoes ? ' ' Ooh you , boogaloo ! ' " Starr also recalled having to take the batteries out of his children 's toys that night , in order to power a tape recorder and make a recording of the new song .The lyrics to the middle eight of " Back Off Boogaloo " came to Starr while watching London Weekend Television 's football show , The Big Match . The program 's host , Jimmy Hill , often referred to a footballer 's playing as " tasty " , a catchphrase that Starr incorporated into his song lyrics :Get yourself together nowAnd give me something tastyEverything you try to doYou know it sure sounds wasted .Commentators have interpreted the song , and particularly this statement , as an attack by Starr on his former Beatles bandmate Paul McCartney . Starr has denied any such interpretation , instead " claiming that the song was inspired by Bolan and nothing more " , Beatles biographer Robert Rodriguez writes . Starr had publicly criticised McCartney 's solo albums McCartney ( 1970 ) and Ram ( 1971 ) on release , and author Bruce Spizer paraphrases the message of the middle eight as " a plea for Paul to produce better music " . The mention of " sound [ ing ] wasted " could also be a reference to McCartney 's overindulgence with cannabis , Rodriguez suggests . A further example of Starr 's allegedly anti @-@ McCartney message exists in the song 's first verse :Wake up , meatheadDon 't pretend that you are deadGet yourself up off the cart .The same commentators suggest that here Starr could be referring to the 1969 " Paul Is Dead " hoax . The latter rumour circulated during September and October of that year while McCartney hid away on his Scottish farm , disconsolate after John Lennon had told him and Starr that he wanted a " divorce " from the Beatles .In addition to these supposed messages in " Back Off Boogaloo " , observers have viewed the song title as Starr 's rebuke to McCartney to abandon his legal stand against the Beatles and Apple Corps , which was placed in receivership in March 1971 after a High Court judge found in McCartney 's favour . Author Keith Badman writes that " Boogaloo " had " long been cited as Paul 's nickname " from his former bandmates Starr , Lennon and George Harrison . While acknowledging that in subsequent years Starr might have chosen to minimise any ill @-@ feeling towards McCartney , Rodriguez notes that the lyrics " just happened to fit perfectly into the ' us vs. Paul ' mindset " following the Beatles ' break @-@ up , to the extent that " Back Off Boogaloo " was " as damning as ' Early 1970 ' had been conciliatory " . When tailoring his 1970 composition " I 'm the Greatest " for Starr to record on the album Ringo ( 1973 ) , Lennon referenced the song title with the lines " Now I 'm only thirty @-@ two / And all I want to do is boogaloo " .Although " T Rex devotees " , in the words of Starr biographer Alan Clayson , claimed that Bolan had ghost @-@ written " Back Off Boogaloo " , Starr later acknowledged that Harrison co @-@ wrote the song by adding some chords and finishing the melody . As on Starr 's 1971 hit single " It Don 't Come Easy " , Harrison was not credited for his songwriting contribution . Starr originally offered " Back Off Boogaloo " to fellow Liverpudlian Cilla Black to record , but she declined , hoping instead to record another new Starr – Harrison composition , " Photograph " .