Known for more than a century of arts , Meridian contains many art and cultural organizations and hosts many cultural events . One of the first art organizations in the city , The Meridian Art League , was established in February 1933 . Art exhibitions were originally held in Lamar Hotel in downtown Meridian , but after a name change to Meridian Art Association in 1949 , exhibitions were held at various locations around the city . After the Carnegie library at 25th Ave and 7th St was closed , the Art Association remodelled the building into the Meridian Museum of Art to serve as a permanent home for exhibits . The museum was opened in 1970 and has since featured rotating exhibitions as well as many educational programs for both students and adults . Over thirty exhibitions are held annually , ranging from traditional decorative arts to ethnographic and tribal materials , photography , crafts , and many other works of art . The collection also includes 18th and 19th century portraits , 20th century photography , and several sculptures .The Meridian Council for the Arts ( MCA ) was founded as Meridian 's and Lauderdale County 's official arts agency in 1978 . MCA operates its Community Art Grants program , the annual Threefoot Festival , several workshops , and other special events each year . MCA is partnered with many arts organizations in the city and county including the Meridian Museum of Art , the Meridian Little Theatre , and the Meridian Symphony Orchestra . Meridian Little Theatre , one of the South 's oldest subscription @-@ based community theatres , was built in 1932 and currently provides entertainment to residents of and visitors to Meridian and Lauderdale County , entertaining over 22 @,@ 000 guests each season , making it Mississippi 's most @-@ attended community theatre . The Meridian Symphony Orchestra ( MSO ) – founded in 1961 – played its first concert in 1962 and its first full season in 1963 . In 1965 the MSO booked its first international soloist , Elena Nikolaidi , to perform with the orchestra . The Orchestra helped the Meridian Public School District develop its own orchestra and strings programs and also helped develop the Meridian Symphony Chorus . The current conductor is Dr. Claire Fox Hillard , who has been with the orchestra since 1991 . The MSO will celebrate its 50th anniversary in February 2011 with a performance from Itzhak Perlman .The city 's former Grand Opera House was built in 1889 by two half brothers , Israel Marks and Levi Rothenberg . During its operation the opera house hosted many famous artists and works , the first being a German company 's rendition of Johann Strauss II 's " The Gypsy Baron " . After closing in the late 1920s due to the Great Depression , the opera house was abandoned for nearly 70 years . A $ 10 million grant in 2000 by the Riley Foundation , a local foundation chartered in 1998 , sparked the building 's restoration while $ 15 million came from a combination of city , county , and federal grants . The opera house 's renovation was completed in September 2006 under the new name " Mississippi State University Riley Center for Education and Performing Arts . " The Riley Center , which includes a 950 @-@ seat auditorium for live performances , a 200 @-@ seat studio theater , and 30 @,@ 000 sq ft ( 2 @,@ 787 m2 ) of meeting space , attracts more than 60 @,@ 000 visitors to downtown Meridian annually for conferences , meetings , and performances .Meridian is rightly considered an architectural treasure trove being one the nations most intact cities from the turn of the last century . Architecture students from around the nation and Canada are known to visit Meridian in groups as part of their coursework due to numerous structures in the city having been designed by noted architects . The only home in the US south designed by noted Canadian born Architect Louis S. Curtiss , famous for inventing the glass curtain wall skyscraper , is extant on Highland Park . The Frank Fort designed Threefoot Building is generally considered one of the best Art Deco skyscrapers in the US and is often compared to Detroit 's famed Fisher Building . Noted California Architect Wallace Neff designed a number of homes in Meridian as well as in the Alabama Black Belt which adjoins the city across the nearby Alabama State line . He had relatives in Meridian and Selma who were executives in the then thriving railroad industry and would take commissions in the area when commissions in California were lean . His work is mostly concentrated in the lower numbered blocks of Poplar Springs Drive where his 2516 Poplar Springs Drive is often compared to the similarly designed Falcon Lair , the Beverly Hills home in Benedict Canyon of Rudolph Valentino . One Neff work was lost to an expansion of Anderson Hospital in 1990 and another in Marion Park burned in the 1950s . The Meridian Post Office with its interior done entirely of bronze and Verde marble is also noteworthy as a very fine example of the type of Post Office structures built in thriving and well to do cities in the 1920s and originally had Lalique lighting which was removed sadly during a 1960s remodeling and which are now in private residences on Poplar Springs Drive and in North Hills .Meridian has also been selected as the future location of the Mississippi Arts and Entertainment Center ( MAEC ) . The Mississippi Legislature approved the idea in 2001 and in 2006 promised $ 4 million in funding if private contributors could raise $ 8 million . The city donated $ 50 @,@ 000 to the cause in September 2007 . The MAEC , as proposed , would be located on 175 acres ( 71 ha ) at Bonita Lakes and consist of an outdoor amphitheatre , an indoor concert hall , and a Hall of Fame honoring Mississippi artists . The Hall of Fame will be located downtown in the old Montana 's building . That property and the adjacent Meridian Hotel building were acquired in July 2010 for $ 300 @,@ 000 . In February 2009 , the MAEC revealed its Walk of Fame outside of the Riley Center in an attempt to promote the planned Hall of Fame . The first star on the walk was dedicated to Jimmie Rodgers , a Meridian native . In September of the same year , the second star was revealed , recognizing B.B. King , a famous blues musician from Mississippi . On June 1 , 2010 , authors Tennessee Williams , Eudora Welty , and William Faulkner were added to the walk . Sela Ward was added to the walk on June 24 , 2010 . The MAEC plans to add many more Mississippi @-@ born stars to the Walk of Fame ; names mentioned include Morgan Freeman , Jimmy Buffett , Elvis Presley , Conway Twitty , and others .Another location in the city used for large productions is the Hamasa Shrine Temple Theater . The Temple Theater houses a 778 @-@ pipe Robert Morgan organ , one of two Theater Organs still in their original installations in the state . With seating for 1800 persons , the silent movie era was a prosperous time for the Temple . At the time , it was one of the largest stages in the United States , second only to the Roxy Theater in New York City . Today , seating 1576 persons , the Temple is used year @-@ round for area events , live stage shows , plays , concerts , Hamasa Shrine functions , and public screenings of classic movies .Highland Park houses a Jimmie Rodgers museum which displays the original guitar of " The Singing Brakeman " and other memorabilia of his life and career , as well as railroad equipment from the steam @-@ engine era . In addition to the museum building itself , there are outside memorials , and a vintage steam locomotive on display . A Mississippi Blues Trail historic marker has been placed in Meridian to honor the city as the birthplace of Jimmie Rodgers and emphasizes his importance to the development of the blues style of music in Mississippi . The city was the first site to receive this designation outside the Mississippi Delta . Also , a Mississippi Country Music Trail marker was placed in Oak Grove Cemetery in honor of Rodgers on June 1 , 2010 . Each year since 1953 , the city has held a festival during May to honor the anniversary of his death .The park is also home to a 19th @-@ century carousel manufactured around 1895 by Gustav Dentzel of Philadelphia , Pennsylvania . Highland Park Dentzel Carousel has been in operation since 1909 , is a National Historic Landmark , and is the world 's only two @-@ row stationary Dentzel menagerie in existence . Its house is the only remaining original carousel building built from a Dentzel blueprint . Around Town Carousels Abound is a public arts project of 62 carousel horses , representing the historic carousel . Sixty @-@ two pieces have been sponsored by local businesses and citizens , and design of the horses was conceived and painted by local artists . They are placed throughout the city and county .