Arriving in New York , Gauthier struggled to find a niche in an already crowded music scene . She put on a performance in Vaudeville entitled Songmotion , which combined Javan music with dancers . New York was already home to many North American and European musical performers , so Gauthier focused on her Javan musical repertoire , which she combined with knowledge and skill in modernist western singing . Gauthier began giving annual recitals at Aeolian Hall , and in November 1917 her performance there caught the eye of many leading composers . She developed her own reputation quickly , known as a " ... sensitive purveyor of interesting , untried songs " . She gave renditions of three songs by Maurice Ravel . Her performance then also included American premieres of Stravinsky 's Three Japanese Lyrics and Griffes ' Five Poems of Ancient China and Japan . The performance was a great success , and she began to receive invitations to perform premieres of songs by contemporary composers . Stravinsky arranged to have Gauthier to premiere all of his vocal pieces .Gauthier travelled to Paris in 1920 at the behest of the Music League of America . Sent there to arrange a tour of North America by Maurice Ravel , she struck up a friendship and professional correspondence not only with him , but also with Erik Satie and Les six . This led to more music being sent to her by various composers that she would premiere in concert . She accepted and premiered almost all works sent to her , the only exception being a refusal to perform Pierrot Lunaire by Arnold Schoenberg . Through this , Gauthier performed large amounts of contemporary French music across the United States . She also included American music in all of her concerts . Gauthier toured America frequently and returned to Europe in 1922 , and again in 1923 . She began to explore Jazz music in concert as well , earning her negative reviews by many musical critics .Her 1923 annual performance at Aeolian Hall entitled " Recital of Ancient and Modern Music for Voice " became a historic occasion when she presented the works of George Gershwin , the first time his works were performed by a classical singer in concert . The first half of the programme presented works considered serious music at the time . She performed both classical works by Vincenzo Bellini and Henry Purcell , mixing them with modernist and neoclassical works by Arnold Schoenberg , Darius Milhaud , Béla Bartók , and Paul Hindemith . The second half of her performance would upset the musical establishment , however . She opened with Alexander 's Ragtime Band by Irving Berlin , then performed works by Jerome Kern and Walter Donaldson , and finally finished with three works by George Gershwin : I 'll Build a Stairway to Paradise , Innocent Ingénue Baby , and Swanee . Gershwin played the piano for these pieces . Important figures in the audience included Ernestine Schumann @-@ Heink , Virgil Thomson , and Paul Whiteman . Although some musical critics panned her decision to include Jazz music , the performance was overall a huge success , and provoked serious discussion among conservative audiences whether jazz music could be considered serious art .Gauthier continued to present music that was thought poorly of by conservative audiences . On some occasions , such as her performances of Gershwin in New York in 1923 and 1925 , as well as in London in 1925 , this was quite successful . A critic in Vienna welcomed her musical selection as a reprieve from the usual fare of classical performances - Schubert , Brahms , Wolf , Richard Strauss - while praising her skill with more classical choices . Other performances suffered – she was booed while performing works by Heitor Villa @-@ Lobos at the Festival of the International Society of Contemporary Music in Venice . She became a celebrity , and continued giving performances across the United States , Europe , and her native Canada . On the sixtieth anniversary of Canadian Confederation in 1927 , she gave a performance in Ottawa which was the first transcontinental radio broadcast in Canada . Although she toured Canada from time to time , and attended performances of Canadian music in New York , she held a negative opinion of Canada 's treatment of native musicians , saying " Canadians . . . would rather listen to foreigners than their own people . "