The Ireland fixture was played at Lansdowne Road , Dublin , on 1 December 1888 . Both teams had a number of leading players out injured – the Irish were forced to make four changes to their original selection . Ireland led 3 – 0 at half @-@ time after scoring a converted try , but the Natives improved considerably in the second @-@ half , scoring four tries . Patrick Keogh scored the first two tries , and his play was praised by the local press . The third try scored was by Thomas Ellison after a counter @-@ attack by George Williams . The try was not converted , but the strong finish from the New Zealanders gave the visitors a 13 – 4 victory . The Irish press were surprised by the loss and strongly criticised their team , but Ireland did go on to defeat Wales two tries to nil in the 1889 Home Nations Championship . Following their defeat of Ireland , the Natives played Trinity College and then North of Ireland . The match against Trinity College was drawn 4 – 4 , and despite Keogh not playing , the Native side played much better than their previous fixture . The team then travelled to Belfast , where they defeated North of Ireland 2 – 0 on 5 December ; scoring two tries to nil .After returning to England , the Natives faced Lancashire in Manchester , where they lost 1 – 0 . Two days later they drew with Batley Bulldogs , despite their opposition scoring five tries . Their next match was against Yorkshire , who were one of the strongest counties in the country , and went on to win the inaugural County Championship that season . Yorkshire fielded a weakened team , and were subsequently defeated 10 – 6 by the Natives , who scored six tries . After a further two victories , the team travelled to Wales , where they lost 3 – 0 to Llanelli , before facing Wales on 22 December .At the start of the match the home crowd were fairly hostile towards the Welsh team due to fans of both Swansea and Llanelli feeling slighted by the lack of selection of their players . Four teams dominated Welsh international selection at the time , and out of the 15 @-@ man team only William Towers and William Bowen of Swansea and Dan Griffiths of Llanelli had been selected . The match was played in Swansea , and the lack of local players may have contributed to a poor crowd , with gate receipts of only £ 120 recorded . The crowd 's hostility impacted on the players , and debutant Norman Biggs was " palpably nervous " at the start of the match . Biggs , aged 18 years and 49 days , became the youngest Welsh international player – a record he held until the debut of Tom Prydie in 2010 . Despite the heckles aimed primarily at Biggs , Charlie Arthur and George Thomas , the Welsh team produced an excellent effort , especially from the forwards .Towers scored the first Welsh try , which was converted by Jim Webb . The Natives replied with a spirited run by Ellison , but he failed to break through the Welsh defence . The tourists trailed even further after George Thomas scored a breakaway try frrm the half @-@ way line , which went some way to silence the heckles from the crowd . Webb , playing in out of position at full @-@ back , missed the conversion and then failed at a long distance goal from a mark . The Natives continued to push , with Elliot coming within five @-@ yards of the try line , and when Ellison did manage to cross the line he was carried back into the 25 @-@ yard line before he could touch down . In the second half Wales continued to push their advantage when Alexander Bland dribbled the ball into the Natives ' 25 ; this was collected by Sydney Nicholls , who managed to get the ball across the try line , allowing Jim Hannan to score . Warbrick for the Natives and Stadden for Wales both subsequently came close to scoring tries , but there were no further scores in the game .The match was also of historical importance because of the Welsh tactics employed . In the 1886 Home Nations Championship Wales had trialled the four three @-@ quarter system , wherein the team would play with eight forwards rather than nine , and instead employ an extra centre three @-@ quarter . The system was deemed a failure and was particularly unpopular with star Welsh player Arthur Gould , whose formidable ability as a back allowed his club team Newport to retain the additional forward . With Gould working in the West Indies , Wales again tried the four three @-@ quarter system against the Natives , and its success saw the team permanently adopt the system . Within six years the other three Home Countries had adopted four three @-@ quarter style of play .Before they left Wales , the Natives played Swansea and two other local clubs , Newport , and Cardiff . They defeated Swansea for their first win in Wales , and followed this up with a victory over Newport in front of 8 @,@ 000 spectators . They finished their Welsh matches , and the year , with a 4 – 1 loss to Cardiff in front of a partisan crowd .