The majority of the Natives left Plymouth on 29 March ( Eyton and Pie Wynyard followed a week later ) . They arrived in Melbourne in May , where the team played mostly Victorian Rules football , hoping to make more money that way . Although the side had employed Jack Lawlor to coach them in Victorian Rules during their tour of the British Isles , the heavy schedule and high injury count had left little time and energy for such training . As a result , the Victorian Rules matches were a failure ; the players ' unfamiliarity with the rules , combined with the fact that most of the Natives were rugby forwards ( and therefore less suited to the more open Victorian Rules ) , ensured that they failed to perform well on the field and struggled to attract large crowds . The side played nine Victorian Rules matches in total , including one in New South Wales , but won only three of them , all against relatively weak opposition .The side 's success in their rugby matches contrasted to their failure in Victorian Rules – the New Zealanders played three rugby matches while in Victoria : against Melbourne , a Navy selection , and Victoria . The matches were all won , with their game against Victoria a 19 – 0 victory . After this they left for Sydney for further rugby matches , and defeated New South Wales 12 – 9 . After two further victories , the side again faced New South Wales , and won the match 16 – 12 . Another two victories followed , before the team played their only association football matches of the tour – both defeats .The team travelled north to Queensland , where , as in New South Wales , rugby was the dominant code of football . Consequently , the team exclusively played rugby while in the region . The Natives faced Queensland at the Association Ground in Brisbane . The 8000 spectators witnessed the New Zealanders overwhelm the Queenslanders to win 22 – 0 ; the Natives did not exert themselves in the win , and the score did not reflect their dominance . After a further two matches , against Toowoomba and Ipswich ( both of whom were comfortably defeated ) , the team returned to Brisbane for a rematch with Queensland . In contrast to their first meeting , the first @-@ half was a close affair , and the two sides were tied at the conclusion of the half . Billy Warbrick suffered a kick to the head , and had to retire early in the second @-@ half . Following the loss of Warbrick , the play of the Natives improved and they recovered to win 11 – 7 . Not long after the game concluded rumours circulated that some of the players had been offered ₤ 50 by bookmakers to throw the game . Eyton later said :It was on the occasion of this match that four of our players were thought , in racing parlance , to be playing " stiff " , and that they had been got by some bookies ; at all events , when accused of it at half @-@ time and cautioned , they played a different game in the second half .The response from the team 's management was to suspend four players . The team travelled to Toowoomba , where they defeated the locals 19 – 0 . The Natives included a replacement player for only the second time , Charles Speakman , after the suspensions reduced the playing strength of the side . The team then travelled back to New Zealand , and arrived in Invercargill on 5 August .