Hu was born in Xiuning County , Anhui Province in 1584 or early 1585 . Both his father and elder brother Zhengxin ( 正心 , art name Wusuo , 無所 ) were physicians , and after he turned 30 he travelled with them while they practised medicine in the areas around Lu 'an and Huoshan . It is commonly stated that Zhengyan himself was also a doctor , though the earliest sources attesting to this occur only in the second half of the 19th century .By 1619 , Hu had moved to Nanjing where he lived with his wife Wu . Their home on Jilongshan ( 雞籠山 , now also known as Beiji Ge ) , a hill located just within the northern city wall , served as a meeting @-@ house for like @-@ minded artists . Hu named it the Ten Bamboo Studio ( Shizhuzhai , 十竹齋 ) , after the ten bamboo plants that grew in front of the property . It functioned as the headquarters for his printing business , where he employed ten artisans including his two brothers Zhengxin and Zhengxing ( 正行 , art name Zizhu , 子著 ) and his sons Qipu ( 其樸 ) and Qiyi ( 其毅 , courtesy name 致果 ) .During Hu 's lifetime , the Ming dynasty , which had ruled China for over 250 years , was overthrown and replaced by China 's last imperial dynasty , the Qing . Following the fall of the capital Beijing in 1644 , remnants of the imperial family and a few ministers set up a Ming loyalist regime in Nanjing with Zhu Yousong on the throne as the Hongguang Emperor . Hu , who was noted for his seal @-@ carving and facility with seal script , created a seal for the new Emperor . The court offered him the position of Drafter for the Secretariat ( zhongshu sheren , 中書舍人 ) as a reward , but he did not accept the role ( although he did accord himself the title of zhongshu sheren in some of his subsequent personal seals ) .According to Wen Ruilin 's Lost History of the South ( Nanjiang Yishi , 南疆繹史 ) , prior to the Qing invasion of Nanjing Hu studied at the National University there , and whilst a student was employed by the Ministry of Rites to record official proclamations ; he produced the Imperial Promotion of Minor Learning ( Qin Ban Xiaoxue , 御頒小學 ) and the Record of Displayed Loyalty ( Biaozhong Ji , 表忠記 ) as part of this work . As a result , he was promoted to the Ministry of Personnel and gained admittance to the Hanlin Academy , but before he could take up this appointment , Beijing had fallen to the Manchu rebellion . Since contemporaneous biographies ( Wen 's work was not published until 1830 ) make no mention of these events , it has been suggested that they were fabricated after Hu 's death .Hu retired from public life and went into seclusion in 1646 , after the end of the Ming dynasty . Xiao Yuncong and Lü Liuliang recorded visiting him during his later years , in 1667 and 1673 respectively . He died in poverty at the age of 90 , sometime around late 1673 or early 1674 .