Democrat William Goebel chose Beckham as his running mate in the Kentucky gubernatorial election of 1899 . Goebel was hesitant about the selection because he wanted someone who could deliver the vote of his home county in the general election , and Beckham 's native Nelson County was already committed to a rival candidate . But friends of Goebel assured him that Beckham would be loyal to Goebel 's reform agenda , whereas the two other men Goebel was considering as running mates would " stack the Senate committees against him . " Beckham was not yet 30 , the minimum age to serve as governor , at the time of his selection .Goebel lost a close election to Republican William S. Taylor . When the General Assembly 's session opened on January 2 , 1900 , the election results were immediately challenged . With Democrats in control of both houses of the Assembly , the results seemed sure to be reversed . The Assembly was still deliberating on January 30 , 1900 , when Goebel was shot by an unknown assailant as he entered the state capitol building . The following day , as Goebel was being treated for his wounds at a local hotel , the General Assembly invalidated enough votes to give him the election . He was sworn into office from his bed the same day . Three days later Goebel died , never having risen from the bed .Legislative chaos ensued as Taylor refused to acknowledge the Assembly 's decision and vacate the governorship . The Republicans in the legislature obeyed Taylor 's orders , while the Democrats ignored Taylor and followed the orders of their leadership . Finally , on February 21 , 1900 , Taylor and Beckham agreed to let the courts settle the matter . The case first went before the Louisville Circuit Court , which found in favor of Beckham . Republicans appealed to the Kentucky Court of Appeals , at that time the court of last resort in the state . On April 6 , 1900 , the Court of Appeals upheld the ruling of the lower court . Taylor appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States , which declined to hear the case on May 21 , 1900 . Taylor 's only supporter on the court was Kentuckian John Marshall Harlan .Following the Supreme Court ruling , Taylor fled to Indianapolis , Indiana , fearing he would be implicated in Goebel 's assassination . Beckham became acting governor , but because of the unusual circumstances surrounding the election , a special election was held November 6 , 1900 , to determine who would complete Goebel 's unexpired term . Beckham ( now of age ) won the election over Republican John W. Yerkes by fewer than 4 @,@ 000 votes . Shortly following the special election , Beckham married Jean Raphael Fuqua of Owensboro . The couple had two sons .As governor Beckham sought to unite his party and the state . As part of this effort he supported changes to the blatantly partisan Goebel Election Law , authored by his late running mate while the latter was a member of the General Assembly . He stressed non @-@ controversial issues such as improvements to roads and the state 's educational system . He recommended passage of a law to set uniform school textbook prices , a reform both he and Goebel had advocated during the gubernatorial campaign . However , his passive leadership ensured that the General Assembly did little to address his agenda . The only major pieces of legislation passed during Beckham 's term were a tax increase that added a half million dollars to the state 's revenue and a child labor law that forbade children under 14 to work without their parents ' consent .