The Americans knew of the approach of the Japanese forces from reports from native scouts and their own patrols , but did not know exactly where or when they would attack . The ridge around which Edson deployed his men consisted of three distinct hillocks . At the southern tip and surrounded on three sides by thick jungle was Hill 80 ( so named because it rose 80 ft ( 24 m ) above sea level ) . Six hundred yards north was Hill 123 ( 123 ft ( 37 m ) high ) , the dominant feature on the ridge . The northernmost hillock was unnamed and about 60 ft ( 18 m ) high . Edson placed the five companies from the Raider battalion on the west side of the ridge and the three Parachute battalion companies on the east side , holding positions in depth from Hill 80 back to Hill 123 . Two of the five Raider companies , " B " and " C " , held a line between the ridge , a small , swampy lagoon , and the Lunga River . Machine @-@ gun teams from " E " Company , the heavy weapons company , were scattered throughout the defenses . Edson placed his command post on Hill 123 .At 21 : 30 on 12 September , the Japanese cruiser Sendai and three destroyers shelled the Lunga perimeter for 20 minutes and illuminated the ridge with a searchlight . Japanese artillery began shelling the Marine lines , but did little damage . At the same time , scattered groups of Kawaguchi 's troops began skirmishing with Marines around the ridge . Kawaguchi 's 1st Battalion — led by Major Yukichi Kokusho — attacked the Raider 's " C " company between the lagoon and the Lunga River , overrunning at least one platoon and forcing the Marine company to fall back to the ridge . Kokusho 's unit became entangled with troops from Kawaguchi 's 3rd Battalion under Lieutenant Colonel Kusukichi Watanabe , who were still struggling to reach their attack positions , and the resulting confusion effectively stopped the Japanese attack on the ridge that night . Kawaguchi , who was having trouble locating where he was in relation to the U.S. Marine lines as well as coordinating his troops ' attacks , later complained , " Due to the devilish jungle , the brigade was scattered all over and was completely beyond my control . In my whole life I have never felt so disappointed and helpless . " Twelve U.S. Marines were killed ; Japanese casualties are unknown but perhaps somewhat greater . Although both Oka in the west and the Kuma unit in the east tried to attack the Marine lines that night , they failed to make contact and halted near the Marine lines at dawn .At first light on 13 September , Cactus Air Force aircraft and Marine artillery fired into the area just south of the ridge , forcing any Japanese out in the open to seek cover in the nearby jungle . The Japanese suffered several casualties , including two officers from Watanabe 's battalion . At 05 : 50 , Kawaguchi decided to regroup his forces for another attack that night .