Chief criminal assistant U.S. attorney Baron C. Sheldahl was assigned to prosecute the charges of federal wiretapping , and a special team from the United States Department of Justice Criminal Division was tasked with prosecuting the murder conspiracy charges . Four of the perpetrators were arrested in September 1990 . Catherine Jane Stork and Richard Kevin Langford were arrested in West Germany , Ann Phyllis McCarthy was arrested in South Africa , and Susan Hagan was arrested in England . In September 1990 , Alma Peralta pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit murder . Peralta , who had served as Ma Anand Sheela 's bodyguard and confidante , agreed to testify against the other defendants in the murder conspiracy . Under the terms of Peralta 's plea agreement she received a sentence of two years in federal prison . Carol Matthews was arrested in Baden @-@ Baden , Germany in October 1990 on charges of wiretapping and conspiracy to murder Turner , where she was held along with three other Rajneeshees . At the time of her arrest , Matthews was found in possession of a false British passport , and had been traveling under the fake name of " Daphene Fosberry " . Indictments were brought against Ma Anand Sheela and six other co @-@ conspirators by a federal grand jury in November 1990 .In April 1991 , Carol Matthews and Richard Kevin Langford ( Swami Anugiten ) were extradited from Germany to the United States in order to appear in federal court in Portland , Oregon . Law enforcement officials from the United States Marshals Service traveled to Frankfurt , Germany and took custody of the Matthews and Langford at Rhine Main Airport . On April 15 , 1991 , Matthews and Langford appeared in federal court in Oregon , and both pleaded innocent to charges of conspiracy to commit murder and carrying out wiretapping . On April 25 , 1991 , Richard Kevin Langford pleaded guilty in federal court to participating in the murder conspiracy plot against Turner , and in exchange he received a sentence of five years in federal prison and the dismissal of other charges against him relating to firearms and wiretapping . Langford agreed to testify against the other members of the murder conspiracy . Langford wrote on his plea agreement form : " In 1985 , meetings were held at the Rancho Rajneesh ... at which time the possible killing of the United States Attorney for Oregon was discussed . I participated in a number of these meetings and agreed with others to work toward that object . " Prosecutor Timothy J. Reardon III stated that Langford had been a member of the Rajneesh commune in Oregon since it began in 1981 , and that the government was able to prove he joined the murder conspiracy at a point in time after May 25 , 1985 . Reardon said that Langford was a member of a group called the " Circle of 38 " , which was the personal security force that guarded Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh , and that he had served as a weapons instructor and policeman at the commune . Langford told U.S. District Judge Malcom F. Marsh that he had suggested that guns for the murder conspiracy could be bought in Texas , instructed the conspiractors about silencers , took responsibility for the weapons while they were in the commune , and disposed of them when members of the murder conspiracy decided to flee the U.S. for Europe . In July 1991 , Carol Matthews entered a guilty plea and was convicted in federal court , she was sentenced to five years in prison .Catherine Jane Stork was convicted of the attempted murder of Rajneesh 's physician Dr. George Meredith ( Swami Devaraj ) in 1986 , and served almost three years in jail . After her release , agents from the FBI uncovered the plot to assassinate Turner , but Stork had already fled to Germany . She was indicted by a federal grand jury in 1990 . In 1991 , the German government refused to extradite Stork back to the United States . In June 1991 , U.S. prosecutors filed affidavits in the murder conspiracy case with the Higher Regional Court in Karlsruhe , Germany , as part of an attempt to extradite Catherin Jane Stork from Germany to the U.S. The affidavits stated that all of the members in the murder conspiracy plot also belonged to a group of Rajneesh followers at the Oregon commune known as " the 38 " , and were trained in " commando tactics using Uzi semiautomatic rifles and handguns " . David Berry Knapp ( known to Rajneesh followers as Swami Krishna Deva ) stated in an FBI affidavit that the murder conspiracy was motivated by Ma Anand Sheela 's " tremendous anger " towards Turner .Ma Anand Sheela served 29 months in a minimum security federal prison for charges related to assault , attempted murder , arson , wiretapping and the 1984 bioterror attack in The Dalles , and moved to Switzerland after her release from prison in 1988 . The assassination conspiracy was discovered after Sheela had left the United States , and as of 1999 she was still wanted by federal law enforcement for her role in the plot , and risked extradition if she crossed the Swiss border . Switzerland declined an extradition request from the United States , and instead tried her in a Swiss court . Sheela was found guilty of " criminal acts preparatory to the commission of murder " in 1999 , and sentenced to time already served .Sally @-@ Anne Croft and Susan Hagan were extradited from Britain in 1994 , and were convicted by a jury decision on July 28 , 1995 for their roles in the assassination plot . They had unsuccessfully attempted to appeal their extradition from Britain to Home Secretary Michael Howard . During their trial the prosecution presented twenty @-@ nine witnesses , including former followers of Rajneesh who placed both women in planning meetings where they discussed murdering Turner . David Berry Knapp , the former mayor of Rajneeshpuram , testified for the government in the case and implicated Croft and Hagan in the assassination conspiracy . Ava Kay Avalos ( Ma Ava ) , a Rajneesh disciple , testified in the Croft case and stated that she had been part of the conspirators that plotted to assassinate Turner . In addition to Knapp and Avalos , co @-@ conspirators Richard Kevin Langford , Phyllis Caldwell , and Alma Peralta testified in the case pursuant to conditional plea or immunity agreements . Both women were sentenced to five years in prison . Croft and Hagan did not testify during their trial . " We hashed over everything – evidence , notes , evidence , notes . I think we did an absolutely fabulous job , " said one of the jurors . At the sentencing for Croft and Hagan , the federal Judge Malcolm Marsh described them as " people of obvious goodwill who had committed an extremely serious offense against the criminal justice system . " Prosecutor Tim Reardon called the conspiracy to commit assassination " a deadly serious crime aimed at the heart of the criminal justice system . " Croft and Hagan were released from imprisonment at FCI Dublin , California in April 1998 , and returned to Britain .In December 2002 , Ann Phyllis McCarthy pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit murder , and was sentenced to one year in jail and a fine of USD $ 10 @,@ 000 . McCarthy had served as fourth @-@ in @-@ command of Rajneeshpuram , and was known by Rajneesh 's followers as Ma Yoga Vidya . Turner called the one @-@ year prison sentence " laughable . " In court statements , McCarthy stated " I cannot forgive myself for not being tougher at the time , " and called her time with the group " psychological torture . "In February 2006 , Stork became the last perpetrator sentenced in the political assassination plot , after ten months of negotiations with Oregon prosecutors . Stork offered to turn herself in and return to the United States after learning of her son 's terminal brain tumor . Prior to sentencing , the court allowed her to travel to Australia to visit her son . In addition to charges of conspiracy to commit murder , Stork also pleaded guilty to the purchase of weapons in violation of federal firearms law . An Oregon judge sentenced her to five years probation , and three months time already served in a German jail . Turner thought she should have received a harsher sentence , and commented " This was a lying @-@ in @-@ wait conspiracy to murder me , a presidential appointee , and for a long time I slept with a loaded gun beside my bed . " Though Stork could have faced life in prison , U.S. District Judge Judge Malcolm F. Marsh thought she had " seen the error of her ways . " A federal prosecutor in the case described Stork as the " MVP " of the conspiracy , and said she was the designated assassin that was set to murder Turner . After her sentencing , Stork stated : " I actually conspired to kill Mr. Turner , it is up to me alone to face this terrible truth ... No person has the right to do what I did . I 'm truly sorry . " Stork returned to Germany after her sentencing .In an affidavit , Timothy J. Reardon III , lead prosecutor for the United States Department of Justice in the case , stated Ma Anand Sheela had told members of the murder conspiracy that Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh had personally authorized the " necessary " murder of specific enemies of the Rajneesh commune . Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh paid a fine of US $ 400 @,@ 000 , agreed to plead guilty to immigration fraud , and was deported from the United States . He agreed to leave the United States and not return unless given permission first from the United States Attorney General . Joseph T. McCann writes in Terrorism on American Soil " Nevertheless , he was never prosecuted for any of the more serious crimes perpetrated by cult members , including the salmonella poisoning . "