During the course of the fighting around the Hongorai , the Australians lost 38 men killed and 159 wounded , while the Japanese lost at least 275 men killed . Following the battle , the Australians continued their advance towards Buin at the southern end of the island . Throughout the remainder of the month and into June , the 15th Brigade advanced along the Buin Road , crossing the Hari on 10 June . Beyond the river , the Japanese resolved to hold the food growing areas in order to protect their precarious food supply , and they consequently occupied a series of deep entrenchments . These were steadily reduced with airstrikes and artillery , and the 15th Brigade subsequently crossed Mobiai River before being relieved by Brigadier Noel Simpson 's 29th Brigade in early July .As the 29th Brigade advanced toward the Mivo River , torrential rain and flooding ultimately brought the advance to a halt . The height of the river rose 2 metres ( 6 @.@ 6 ft ) . The Buin Road was reduced , in the words of Gavin Long , " to a sea of mud " and many of the bridges upon which the Australian supply system was dependent were washed away . This rendered large @-@ scale offensive infantry operations impossible and as the situation worsened for a period of time the Australians even ceased patrolling operations across the Mivo ; meanwhile , the Japanese continued to harass the Australians , probing their positions and setting mines and traps , targeting the Australian line of communications . On 9 July , the 15th Infantry Battalion fought off a series of attacks around Siskatekori , at the junction of the Mivo River and the Buin Road , which included a heavy Japanese artillery bombardment . Australian patrols were resumed in late July and continued into August . These attacks proved very costly , particularly amongst the Australian engineers that were tasked with rebuilding the bridges and roads that had been destroyed in the flooding .Fighting in the northern sector continued during this time also , and although preparations in the south for the final advance towards Buin continued into August , combat operations on the island ceased as the war came to an end before these were completed . As a result , the final Australian operations on Bougainville took place on the Ratsua front in the northern sector , where the Australians had been conducting a holding action since the failed landing at Porton Plantation had forced them to abandon plans for an advance into the Bonis Peninsula . By mid @-@ August , however , following the dropping of two atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and Japan 's subsequent unconditional surrender , a cease fire was ordered on the island and although there were minor clashes following this , it spelt an end to major combat operations .Following the end of the war , the Australian Army awarded three battle honours for the fighting around the Hongorai River . The 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , and the 9th , 24th , 57th / 60th and 58th / 59th Infantry Battalions received the battle honour " Hongorai River " . A second battle honour — " Egan 's Ridge – Hongorai Ford " — was also awarded to the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , and the 24th and 58th / 59th Infantry Battalions for the second stage of the fighting , while the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion received the separate battle honour of " Commando Road " for this period .