In 1701 , the first transportation routes through what became the state of Michigan were the lakes , rivers and Indian trails . Two of these trails followed parts of the future US 2 . The Sault – Green Bay Trail roughly followed the Lake Michigan shoreline routing of US 2 between Escanaba and St. Ignace . The Mackinac Trail connected St. Ignace with Sault Ste . Marie .In the age of the auto trail , the roads that later formed US 2 through the UP were given a few different highway names . When the original roadways between Ironwood and Iron River were completed in late 1915 , the Upper Peninsula Development Bureau ( UPDB ) named the area Cloverland and the highway the Cloverland Trail . Later the name was extended over the highway to Escanaba , and to all highways in the area in the early 1920s ; the name was phased out by the UPDB completely in 1927 . The roadways were also used for the Theodore Roosevelt International Highway , named for former US president Theodore Roosevelt after his death in 1919 . Overall , this highway ran from Portland , Oregon , to Portland , Maine , by way of Michigan and the Canadian province of Ontario . Through the UP , the southern branch followed the immediate predecessors to US 2 , including the section through Florence County , Wisconsin .The Great Lakes Automobile Route was established in 1917 by the UPDB . A predecessor of the Great Lakes Circle Tours by seventy years , the route followed " a circular journey along the banks of lakes Michigan and Superior and Green Bay ... " This route followed the modern US 2 from Ironwood to the M ‑ 94 junction in Manistique , using the modern M ‑ 69 and M ‑ 95 to stay in Michigan . Branches of the route followed US 41 and M ‑ 35 between Powers and Escanaba . The route was originally intended to entice motorists to drive around Lake Michigan . The name fell out of use before its first anniversary because of World War I.One Canadian auto trail was routed through the UP as well . In 1920 , the King 's International Highway linked Vancouver , British Columbia , to Halifax , Nova Scotia , but there was no highway to carry it around the north side of Lake Superior . Motorists had to ship their cars by boat between Sault Ste . Marie , Ontario , and Thunder Bay or enter the United States to continue along the auto trail . The routings varied on the maps of the time , but its basic route used US 2 through the UP from Ironwood to Sault Ste . Marie until a highway north of Lake Superior was opened in 1960 ; by that time , the auto trail had taken on the Trans @-@ Canada Highway name .