Apple Records issued the single on 17 March 1972 in Britain , as Apple R 5944 , with a US release taking place three days later , as Apple 1849 . It was Starr 's first release since " It Don 't Come Easy " , a year before . During this period , his priority had been to develop a career as an actor in films such as 200 Motels ( 1971 ) and Blindman . Further aligning himself with Britain 's glam rock movement , Starr made his directorial debut with Born to Boogie ( 1972 ) , a film starring Bolan that included Starr 's footage of a T. Rex concert held at Wembley on 18 March . With " Back Off Boogaloo " , NME critic Bob Woffinden noted Starr 's success in establishing himself in the two years since the Beatles ' break @-@ up , and wrote that the single " confirmed that he and Harrison , dark horses both , were the ones who had managed their solo careers more purposefully and intelligently " compared with McCartney and Lennon .The song was a hit in the US , reaching number 9 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and achieved Starr 's best position on the UK Singles Chart , where it reached number 2 . A promotional video for " Back Off Boogaloo " was shot on 20 March at Lennon 's Tittenhurst Park residence while Starr was looking after the property . The video , which shows Starr walking around an outdoor structure and followed by a Frankenstein @-@ like monster , was directed by Tom Taylor and financed by Caravel Films . A similar monster appeared on the single 's picture sleeve , holding a cigarette .Alan Clayson writes of reviewers criticising " Back Off Boogaloo " for being repetitious , leading Starr to respond in a 1973 interview : " Play me a pop song that isn 't . " On release , Chris Welch wrote in Melody Maker : " A Number One hit could easily be in store for the maestro of rock drums . There 's a touch of the Marc Bolans in this highly playable rhythmic excursion ... It 's hypnotic and effective , ideal for jukeboxes and liable to send us all mad by the end of the week . " Woffinden described the single as " every bit as ebullient " as " It Don 't Come Easy " , although " slightly inferior " , while Mike DeGagne of AllMusic views it as a song where " [ t ] he jovial spirit of Ringo Starr shines through " . In a 1974 article for the NME , Charles Shaar Murray highlighted " Back Off Boogaloo " as a " great radio and juke @-@ box tune " .Among Beatle biographers , Simon Leng terms it " a rocking , soccer crowd chant that suited Starr 's talents well " , and Bruce Spizer praises the track as a " high @-@ energy in @-@ your @-@ face rocker propelled by Ringo 's thundering drums and George 's stinging slide guitar " . In the 2005 publication NME Originals : Beatles – The Solo Years 1970 – 1980 , Paul Moody listed " Back Off Boogaloo " first among Starr 's " ten solo gems " and described it as " Good time rock 'n'droll to match the Faces " . Guitar World editor Damian Fanelli includes the song on his list of Harrison 's ten best post @-@ Beatles " Guitar Moments " , saying of the recording : " the main event is clearly Harrison 's slightly wild , wacky – and very bouncy – slide guitar solo , which includes an alternate melody line that 's even catchier than the melody Ringo is singing . "Re @-@ releases for " Back Off Boogaloo " include Starr 's 1975 greatest hits album , Blast from Your Past , and , along with " Blindman " , as a bonus track on the 1992 reissue of his Goodnight Vienna album ( 1974 ) . " Back Off Boogaloo " also appeared on his 2007 compilation Photograph : The Very Best of Ringo Starr , the collector 's edition of which included his 1972 video for the song .