The Great Plaza lies at the core of the site ; it is flanked on the east and west sides by two great temple @-@ pyramids . On the north side it is bordered by the North Acropolis and on the south by the Central Acropolis .The Central Acropolis is a palace complex just south of the Great Plaza .The North Acropolis , together with the Great Plaza immediately to the south , is one of the most studied architectural groups in the Maya area ; the Tikal Project excavated a massive trench across the complex , thoroughly investigating its construction history . It is a complex group with construction beginning in the Preclassic Period , around 350 BC . It developed into a funerary complex for the ruling dynasty of the Classic Period , with each additional royal burial adding new temples on top of the older structures . After AD 400 a row of tall pyramids was added to the earlier Northern Platform , which measured 100 by 80 metres ( 330 by 260 ft ) , gradually hiding it from view . Eight temple pyramids were built in the 6th century AD , each of them had an elaborate roofcomb and a stairway flanked by masks of the gods . By the 9th century AD , 43 stelae and 30 altars had been erected in the North Acropolis ; 18 of these monuments were carved with hieroglyphic texts and royal portraits . The North Acropolis continued to receive burials into the Postclassic Period .The South Acropolis is found next to Temple V. It was built upon a large basal platform that covers an area of more than 20 @,@ 000 square metres ( 220 @,@ 000 sq ft ) .The Plaza of the Seven Temples is to the west of the South Acropolis . It is bordered on the east side by a row of nearly identical temples , by palaces on the south and west sides and by an unusual triple ballcourt on the north side .The Mundo Perdido is to the west of the Plaza of the Seven Temples . It is the largest ceremonial complex dating from the Preclassic period at Tikal . The complex was organized as a large E @-@ Group consisting of a pyramid aligned with a platform to the east that supported three temples . The Mundo Perdido complex was rebuilt many times over the course of its history . By AD 250 – 300 its architectural style was influenced by the great metropolis of Teotihuacan in the Valley of Mexico , including the use of the talud @-@ tablero form . During the Early Classic period ( c . 250 – 600 ) the Mundo Perdido became one of the twin foci of the city , the other being the North Acropolis . From AD 250 to 378 it may have served as the royal necropolis . The Mundo Perdido complex was given its name by the archaeologists of the University of Pennsylvania ; it is centered upon the Lost World Pyramid and a small platform to the west of it .Group G lies just south of the Mendez Causeway . The complex dates to the Late Classic and consists of palace @-@ type structures and is one of the largest groups of its type at Tikal . It has two stories but most of the rooms are on the lower floor , a total of 29 vaulted chambers . The remains of two further chambers belong to the upper storey . One of the entrances to the group was framed by a gigantic mask .Group H is centered on a large plaza to the north of the Great Plaza . It is bordered by temples dating to the Late Classic .There are nine Twin @-@ Pyramid Complexes at Tikal , one of which was completely dismantled in ancient times and some others were partly destroyed . They vary in size but consist of two pyramids facing each other on an east – west axis . These pyramids are flat @-@ topped and have stairways on all four sides . A row of plain stelae is placed immediately to the west of the eastern pyramid and to the north of the pyramids , and lying roughly equidistant from them , there is usually a sculpted stela and altar pair . On the south side of these complexes there is a long vaulted building containing a single room with nine doorways . The entire complex was built at once and these complexes were built at 20 @-@ year ( or k 'atun ) intervals during the Late Classic . The first twin pyramid complex was built in the early 6th century in the East Plaza . It was once thought that these complexes were unique to Tikal but rare examples have now been found at other sites , such as Yaxha and Ixlu , and they may reflect the extent of Tikal 's political dominance in the Late Classic .Group Q is a twin @-@ pyramid complex , and is one of the largest at Tikal . It was built by Yax Nuun Ayiin II in 771 in order to mark the end of the 17th K 'atun . Most of it has been restored and its monuments have been re @-@ erected .Group R is another twin @-@ pyramid complex , dated to 790 . It is close to the Maler Causeway .