Catherine Jane Stork volunteered to be the follower who would actually murder Turner , and bought guns and silencers . Stork was known to fellow followers as Ma Shanti Bhadra , and was also one of the three " Big Mammas " in Rajneeshpuram . Sally @-@ Anne Croft ( known by followers as Ma Prem Savita ) , an accountant and the group 's Chief Financial Officer , provided money for the purchase of weapons related to the plot . Phyllis Caldwell ( Ma Deva Ritka ) described in a federal affidavit how members of the murder conspiracy obtained handguns , referring to Catherine Jane Stork and Sally @-@ Anne Croft : " Shanti B went down to Jesus Grove , and Savita gave us several thousand dollars to use to buy guns . " Jesus Grove referred to a group of trailers where all the leaders of the Rajneesh commune resided , except for Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh .Ma Anand Sheela and three other Rajneesh followers traveled to New York in the spring of 1985 to acquire false identification . According to a federal indictment , the perpetrators of the assassination plot used a false birth certificate to purchase guns . Two members of the group then traveled to Texas to purchase handguns . Caldwell stated she and Catherine Jane Stork flew to Texas to purchase guns there . They purchased five guns in Texas , but encountered difficulty purchasing handguns in Texas with out @-@ of @-@ state identification and traveled to New Mexico instead . Caldwell said they called back to the commune but the women were instructed " not to come back without the guns " .In New Mexico , they obtained false identification , and purchased several pistols . Their intention was to purchase guns which were difficult to trace . Caldwell said it was easy to obtain guns in New Mexico : " we found it was pretty easy to buy guns . All you had to do was show some identification and it was easy to get . " Caldwell said she and Stork went to a university library to find the identity " of someone dying very young " , next went " to public records and asked for a copy of a birth certificate " and described how " we got a rent receipt book and just made up a rent receipt " . " And then we were able to go to several different gun shops in Albuquerque with those two bits of identification and buy five different guns and bullets , " said Caldwell . They were able to obtain one Colt .38 @-@ caliber revolver , and four Ruger .357 @-@ caliber Security @-@ Six Magnum revolvers . The conspirators smuggled the guns into Oregon by packing them in luggage and putting the luggage on a Greyhound Lines bus . Caldwell said that she and Stork traveled by bus back to the Rajneesh commune so as to avoid airport metal detectors .