Following the classification of Tropical Depression Two @-@ E on June 19 , the Government of Mexico issued a tropical storm warning for coastal areas between Zihuatanejo and Manzanillo . A hurricane watch was also put in place from Tecpán de Galeana to Punta San Telmo . Later that day , the tropical storm warning was upgraded to a hurricane warning and the watch was extended westward to La Fortuna . As Beatriz continued to strengthen , the watches and warnings were extended westward to Cabo Corrientes on June 20 . Early on June 21 , the easternmost advisories were discontinued as Beatriz moved away . Later that morning , all watches and warnings were discontinued in light of Beatriz 's rapid weakening .In Colima and Jalisco , residents were warned of heavy rains that could trigger flooding and mudslides . Schools across both states canceled classes for June 21 . In Colima , 236 shelters were opened to the public . Additionally , the Mexican Navy was placed on standby for hurricane relief . A total of 980 temporary shelters were opened in Guerrero , many of which were in Acapulco , as many residents were expected to evacuate flood @-@ prone area . An orange @-@ level alert was issued for portions of Chiapas in light of potentially heavy rains . Throughout Western and Southwestern Mexico , the Servicio Meteorológico Nacional ( National Weather Service ) advised that all air and sea traffic be suspended until the passage of Beatriz .Across Guerrero , Beatriz produced heavy rain , peaking at 222 @.@ 5 mm ( 8 @.@ 76 in ) in Copala , Guerrero . Several homes across the state were damaged , though none were destroyed . In Acapulco , 380 homes were inundated by flood waters , prompting evacuations in areas built in 1999 to relocate residents after Hurricane Pauline . Several landslides blocked off roads and a 100 m ( 330 ft ) section of a roundabout was destroyed . In the community of Amatillo , three people were killed after being washed away by flood waters . Heavy rains from Beatriz caused the Sabana River to overflow its banks , placing 150 homes across 14 colonias under water . One person drowned in San Agustín after falling in the swollen river . Twenty @-@ seven colonias in and around the city lost power after muddy floodwaters entered a substation . Throughout Oaxaca , at least a dozen homes lost their roofs due to high winds . Portions of Colima , Chiapas , Michoacán and Jalisco experienced heavy rains ; however , in many areas , the rain proved beneficial in mitigating a severe drought .