Burial 1 is a tomb in the Lost World complex . A fine ceramic bowl was recovered from the tomb , with the handle formed from three @-@ dimensional head and neck of a bird emerging from the two @-@ dimensional body painted on the lid .Burial 10 is the tomb of Yax Nuun Ayiin . It is located beneath Structure 34 in the North Acropolis . The tomb contained a rich array of offerings , including ceramic vessels and food , and nine youths were sacrificed to accompany the dead king . A dog was also entombed with the deceased king . Pots in the tomb were stuccoed and painted and many demonstrated a blend of Maya and Teotihuacan styles . Among the offerings was an incense @-@ burner in the shape of an elderly underworld god , sitting on a stool made of human bones and holding a severed head in his hands . The tomb was sealed with a corbel vault , then the pyramid was built on top .Burial 48 is generally accepted as the tomb of Siyaj Chan K 'awil . It is located beneath Temple 33 in the North Acropolis . The chamber of the tomb was cut from the bedrock and contained the remains of the king himself together with those of two adolescents who had been sacrificed in order to accompany the deceased ruler . The walls of the tomb were covered with white stucco painted with hieroglyphs that included the Long Count date equivalent to 20 March 457 , probably the date of either the death or interment of the king . The king 's skeleton was missing its skull , its femurs and one of its hands while the skeletons of the sacrificial victims were intact .Burial 85 dates to the Late Preclassic and was enclosed by a platform , with a primitive corbel vault . The tomb contained a single male skeleton , which lacked a skull and its thighbones . The dynastic founder of Tikal , Yax Ehb ' Xook , has been linked to this tomb , which lies deep in the heart of the North Acropolis . The deceased had probably died in battle with his body being mutilated by his enemies before being recovered and interred by his followers . The bones were wrapped carefully in textiles to form an upright bundle . The missing head was replaced by a small greenstone mask with shell @-@ inlaid teeth and eyes and bearing a three @-@ pointed royal headband . This head wears an emblem of rulership on its forehead and is a rare Preclassic lowland Maya portrait of a king . Among the contents of the tomb were a stingray spine , a spondylus shell and twenty @-@ six ceramic vessels .Burial 116 is the tomb of Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I. It is a large vaulted chamber deep within the pyramid , below the level of the Great Plaza . The tomb contained rich offerings of jadeite , ceramics , shell and works of art . The body of the king was covered with large quantities of jade ornaments including an enormous necklace with especially large beads , as depicted in sculpted portraits of the king . One of the outstanding pieces recovered from the tomb was an ornate jade mosaic vessel with the lid bearing a sculpted portrait of the king himself .Burial 195 was flooded with mud in antiquity . This flood had covered wooden objects that had completely rotted away by the time the tomb was excavated , leaving hollows in the dried mud . Archaeologists filled these hollows with stucco and thus excavated four effigies of the god K 'awiil , the wooden originals long gone .Burial 196 is a Late Classic royal tomb that contained a jade mosaic vessel topped with the head of the Maize God .