Although the Kentucky Constitution prohibited governors from serving consecutive terms , Beckham announced he would seek a full term as governor in 1903 . His candidacy was challenged in court , but the court ruled Beckham had not served a full first term and was eligible to run . Due to his record of reconciliation and supporting non @-@ controversial reforms , he had no significant opposition in winning his party 's nomination . His record also deprived his Republican opponent , Morris B. Belknap , of any significant campaign issue in the general election . Beckham defeated Belknap and three minor candidates .In his message to the legislature in 1904 , Beckham again raised the issue of a uniform school textbook law , which had not passed during his first term . The law was one of few significant reforms that passed during the 1904 session . During the session funds were approved for building a new capitol building and a memorial to the late Governor Goebel .In March 1904 , Beckham signed the Day Law mandating racial segregation of all schools in Kentucky . Berea College , a private college in eastern Kentucky that had been integrated since the 1850s , immediately filed suit to challenge the law . The substance of the law was upheld in the circuit court and the Kentucky Court of Appeals . Berea appealed to the Supreme Court , and in 1908 the court handed down an 8 – 1 decision against the college . Only John Marshall Harlan dissented .Near the close of the 1904 session , legislators approved the creation of Beckham County from parts of Carter , Elliott , and Lewis counties . Olive Hill was made the county seat . Soon the county 's existence was challenged in court on grounds that it fell short of the 400 square miles ( 1 @,@ 000 km2 ) required by the state constitution and that it reduced the counties it was carved from to less than 400 square miles ( 1 @,@ 000 km2 ) . Carter County joined the lawsuit , claiming the border of Beckham County passed too close to Grayson , the seat of Carter County , and Vanceburg , the seat of Lewis County . The state constitution forbade county borders to pass within 10 miles ( 16 km ) of a county seat . On April 29 , 1904 , the Kentucky Court of Appeals found in favor of the plaintiffs and dissolved Beckham County .During the 1906 legislative session , Beckham urged investigation and prosecution of corrupt insurance companies , following the lead of New York attorney Charles Evans Hughes . In particular , he recommended reducing the practice of deferred dividends , which allowed the insurance companies to keep large stores of cash on @-@ hand for illegal purposes . He further advocated that insurance companies doing business in the state be required to invest a certain percentage of their earnings in Kentucky , bolstering the its economy and providing policyholders some protection against fraud .Beckham refused to send troops into the western part of the state to quell the ongoing Black Patch Tobacco Wars . He cited constitutional reasons for his refusal , but more probably his reasons were political – the Democrats were dominant in this region and he didn 't want to challenge his own party . By collecting some old Civil War debts from the federal government , Beckham virtually eliminated the state 's debt . Encouraged by the state 's improved finances , the General Assembly voted to expand two of the state 's normal schools , Western State Teachers College in Bowling Green ( later Western Kentucky University ) and Eastern State Teachers College in Richmond ( later part of Eastern Kentucky University ) .With a successful legislative session behind him , Beckham made a bold political move in June 1906 : he orchestrated an effort to set the Democratic gubernatorial and senatorial primaries in November – a full year before the gubernatorial election and two years before the senatorial election . Beckham wanted the Senate seat , and moving the primary up two years would allow him to secure his party 's nomination while he was still governor . It also allowed him to use his influence as governor to sway the party 's choice of his potential successor as governor . State Auditor Samuel Wilbur Hager was Beckham 's choice for governor and easily won the early primary over challenger N.B. Hays . Former governor James B. McCreary challenged Beckham for the senatorial nomination , but Beckham won by more than 11 @,@ 000 votes .