The Indonesia @-@ Malaysia confrontation was fought from 1962 to 1966 between the British Commonwealth and Indonesia over the creation of the Federation of Malaysia , with the Commonwealth attempting to safeguard the security of the new state . The war remained limited , and was fought primarily on the island of Borneo , although a number of Indonesian seaborne and airborne incursions onto the Malay Peninsula did occur . As part of Australia 's continuing military commitment to the security of Malaysia , army , naval and airforce units were based there as part of the Far East Strategic Reserve . Regardless the Australian government was wary of involvement in a war with Indonesia and initially limited its involvement to the defence of the Malayan peninsula only . On two occasions Australian troops from 3 RAR were used to help mop up infiltrators from seaborne and airborne incursions at Labis and Pontian , in September and October 1964 .Following these raids the government conceded to British and Malaysian requests to deploy an infantry battalion to Borneo . During the early phases , British and Malaysian troops had attempted only to control the Malaysian / Indonesian border , and to protect population centres . However , by the time the Australian battalion deployed the British had decided on more aggressive action , crossing the border into Kalimantan to obtain information and conduct ambushes to force the Indonesians to remain on the defensive , under the codename Operation Claret . The fighting took place in mountainous , jungle @-@ clad terrain , and a debilitating climate , with operations characterised by the extensive use of company bases sited along the border , cross @-@ border operations , the use of helicopters for troop movement and resupply , and the role of human and signals intelligence to determine enemy movements and intentions .3 RAR deployed to Borneo in March 1965 , and served in Sarawak until the end of July , operating on both sides of the border . The battalion had four major contacts with Indonesian forces and several smaller ones — including at Sungei Koemba , Kindau and Babang during which they inflicted heavy casualties on the Indonesians — as well as suffering casualties in two mine incidents . 4 RAR served a less @-@ eventful tour between April and August 1966 , and also operated over the border , successfully clashing with the Indonesians on a number of occasions . A squadron of the Special Air Service Regiment ( SASR ) was also deployed in 1965 and again in 1966 , taking part in cross @-@ border operations and inflicting significant casualties on the Indonesians , even though they were often tasked with covert reconnaissance . Other units included artillery and engineers , while a number of RAN ships were involved in shelling Indonesian positions in Borneo and in repelling infiltrators in the Singapore Strait . The RAAF played a relatively minor role , although it would have been used far more extensively had the war escalated .Operations in Borneo were extremely sensitive and they received little press coverage in Australia , while official acknowledgement of involvement in cross @-@ border missions only occurred in 1996 . Following a military coup in Indonesia in early 1966 which brought General Suharto to power , a peace treaty was signed in August 1966 which ended the conflict . 3 @,@ 500 Australians served during Confrontation ; casualties included 16 dead , with seven killed in action and eight wounded .