In 2008 , Radcliffe revealed that he has a mild form of the neurological disorder developmental coordination disorder . The motor skill disorder sometimes prevents him from doing simple activities , such as writing or tying his own shoelaces . " I was having a hard time at school , in terms of being crap at everything , with no discernible talent , " Radcliffe commented . In August 2010 , he stopped drinking alcohol after finding himself becoming too reliant on it .In November 2007 Radcliffe published several poems under the pen name Jacob Gershon – a combination of his middle name and the Jewish version of his mother 's maiden name Gresham – in Rubbish , an underground fashion magazine . He has a close friendship with his Harry Potter co @-@ stars Tom Felton and Emma Watson , and is tight @-@ knit with his family , whom he credits for keeping him grounded .Sources disagree about Radcliffe 's personal wealth ; he was reported to have earned £ 1 million for the first Harry Potter film and around £ 15 million for the sixth . Radcliffe appeared on the Sunday Times Rich List in 2006 , which estimated his personal fortune to be £ 14 million , making him one of the richest young people in the UK . In March 2009 he was ranked number one on the Forbes " Most Valuable Young Stars " list , and by April The Daily Telegraph measured his net worth at £ 30m , making him the 12th richest young person in the UK . Radcliffe was considered to be the richest teenager in England later that year . In February 2010 he was named the sixth highest paid Hollywood male star and placed at number five on Forbes 's December list of Hollywood 's highest @-@ grossing actors with a film revenue of US $ 780 million , mainly due to Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows being released that year .Radcliffe maintains a home in the West Village of Lower Manhattan in New York City . As of October 2012 , Radcliffe has been dating American Erin Darke , whom he met on the set of Kill Your Darlings . There were rumours and stories of a possible engagement in mid @-@ 2014 , but Darke 's father Ian Darke denied there were any such plans in December 2014 .