Seven followers ( called Rajneeshees ) of charismatic leader Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh ( now known as Osho ) , were convicted of a 1985 conspiracy to assassinate Charles Turner , and an additional unindicted eighth member of the Rajneesh commune pleaded guilty to murder conspiracy . The perpetrators were high @-@ ranking followers within the Rajneeshee organization . Prosecutors in the case stated that the perpetrators had planned to murder Turner after he was appointed to head an investigation into the group 's activities in Rajneeshpuram , Oregon . Turner 's investigation focused on sham marriages organized by the group , as well as other illegal activities including immigration fraud , and he later headed the federal prosecution relating to the 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack in The Dalles , Oregon . Oregon Attorney General Dave Frohnmayer was also involved in investigations of the group , working alongside Turner .In May 1985 , Rajneesh 's personal secretary and second @-@ in @-@ command , Sheela Silverman ( Ma Anand Sheela ) , gathered the leader 's key followers and formed a group of conspirators in order to plan the assassination of Turner , as well as several dissidents among their organization . Sheela stated that Turner 's grand jury investigation " threatened the existence of the commune " , and exposed Rajneesh and several of his disciples to criminal prosecution . Sheela hoped that by murdering Turner they would be able to thwart the federal immigration investigation which could have resulted in deportation of Rajneeshee leaders . Three former leaders of the commune including Ma Anand Sheela , Dianne Yvonne Onang ( Ma Anand Puja ) , a registered nurse from the Philippines who managed the Rajneeshee medical corporation , and former treasurer of Rajneesh Foundation International and Catherine Jane Stork ( Ma Shanti Bhadra ) of Australia , put together a hit list which included U.S. Attorney Charles Turner and Oregon Attorney General David Frohnmayer .Susan Hagan ( Ma Anand Su ) , a top official in the Rajneeshpuram hierarchy , was also a participant in the assassination conspiracy . Hagan was in charge of the security force at Rajneeshpuram , ran the Rajneesh Investment Corporation , and supervised construction on the commune . Other conspirators in the assassination plot included Ann Phyllis McCarthy ( Ma Yoga Vidya ) , president of the Rajneesh commune , and Alma Potter ( Ma Dhyan Yogini ) , Ma Anand Sheela 's bodyguard and traveling companion . Potter was manager of the Hotel Rajneesh in Portland , Oregon , and a member of the commune 's security force . The Oregonian reported that nine people were on the hit list , including : Turner , Frohnmayer , former assistant attorney general Karen H. Green , Wasco County planning director Daniel C. Durow , Wasco County commissioner James L. Comini , investigative journalist for The Oregonian Leslie L. Zaitz , former member Helen C. Byron ( Ma Idam Shunyo ) , who had been awarded US $ 1 @.@ 7 million in a lawsuit against Rajneesh Foundation International , her daughter Barbara J. Byron ( Makima ) , and Rajneesh 's former secretary Laxmi Thakarsi Kuruwa ( Ma Yoga Laxmi ) .