After the withdrawal from Gallipoli the Australians returned to Egypt and the AIF underwent a major expansion . In 1916 the infantry began to move to France while the cavalry units remained in the Middle East to fight the Turks . Australian troops of the Anzac Mounted Division and the Australian Mounted Division saw action in all the major battles of the Sinai and Palestine Campaign , playing a pivotal role in fighting the Turkish troops that were threatening British control of Egypt . The Australian 's first saw combat during the Senussi uprising in the Libyan Desert and the Nile Valley , during which the combined British forces successfully put down the primitive pro @-@ Turkish Islamic sect with heavy casualties . The Anzac Mounted Division subsequently saw considerable action in the Battle of Romani against the Turkish between 3 – 5 August 1916 , with the Turks eventually pushed back . Following this victory the British forces went on the offensive in the Sinai , although the pace of the advance was governed by the speed by which the railway and water pipeline could be constructed from the Suez Canal . Rafa was captured on 9 January 1917 , while the last of the small Turkish garrisons in the Sinai were eliminated in February .The advance entered Palestine and an initial , unsuccessful attempt was made to capture Gaza on 26 March 1917 , while a second and equally unsuccessful attempt was launched on 19 April . A third assault occurred between 31 October and 7 November and this time both the Anzac Mounted Division and the Australian Mounted Division took part . The battle was a complete success for the British , over @-@ running the Gaza @-@ Beersheba line and capturing 12 @,@ 000 Turkish soldiers . The critical moment was the capture of Beersheba on the first day , after the Australian 4th Light Horse Brigade charged more than 4 miles ( 6 @.@ 4 km ) . The Turkish trenches were overrun , with the Australians capturing the wells at Beersheeba and securing the valuable water they contained along with over 700 prisoners for the loss of 31 killed and 36 wounded . Later , Australian troops assisted in pushing the Turkish forces out of Palestine and took part in actions at Mughar Ridge , Jerusalem and the Megiddo . The Turkish government surrendered on 30 October 1918 . Units of the Light Horse were subsequently used to help put down a nationalist revolt in Egypt in 1919 and did so with efficiency and brutality , although they suffered a number of fatalities in the process .Meanwhile , the AFC had undergone remarkable development , and its independence as a separate national force was unique among the Dominions . Deploying just a single aircraft to German New Guinea in 1914 , the first operational flight did not occur until 27 May 1915 however , when the Mesopotamian Half Flight was called upon to assist in protecting British oil interests in Iraq . The AFC was soon expanded and four squadrons later saw action in Egypt , Palestine and on the Western Front , where they performed well .