Monday was definitely my most memorable and one of the nicer days of the trip. We started off by going to Uxmal, an ancient Mayan city. Again we split into two groups. As you may imagine the first thing we saw was the main pyramid. It was about three stories tall but was not built all at once. It was actually built up three times. First, starting as a raised platform with buildings on it then when they needed more space or wanted to show off more they built a second layer. This happened one more time, giving us the building we see today. The pyramid was speculated to be for mostly religious use. We know that it was built up multiple times because ‘recently’ a group of archaeologists did a dig to the inside of the pyramid and found the ruins of the second layer. 
	After the pyramid we saw how the ancient Mayans built their arches. They aren't like Roman arches where if you take their keystone out it will fall apart. These arches were made of special cut stones that lined the sides. They were then filled in so that when one half of the wall collapses or is destroyed the other side will still stand firm. A cornerstone to one of the buildings.
	Walking around the arches we saw a possible main courtyard for trade. Alongside the upper walls of the buildings you could see etchings of a snake/bird, these were most likely the blending of religions from across the Americas as Uxmal was a major trade center. So many different beliefs would come and blend here. One of the main things about this courtyard, other than the etchings, were the doors. In the main courtyard there were thirteen doors for the upper gods and nine for the lower gods.
	Next was the main ball court, but this one was badly damaged. It was speculated that due to its proximity it was most likely for the upper echelon of the Uxmal peoples. However, we don't know much about the ball game except for that it was played throughout the Mayan empire and that it was most likely a religious sport. Depending on where you went the game seemed to be played differently though on average the goal seemed to be to put a stiff rubber ball through one of the two hoops. In the book, Reading the Maya Glyphs, by Michael Coe, he states that, “In almost any city of sufficient size were one or more masonry ballcourts, in which a richly symbolic game was played with a rubber ball” (Coe 12). Unfortunately the ones at this court seemed to have been replaced with concrete versions of them.
	After we learned about how they were able to keep water during the dry season. There used to be canals that ran along the streets until it ended in a massive reservoir that held the water from the rainy seasons. Most of the reservoirs were underground with one or two holes to the surface. From here we spent a while looking at other parts of buildings or archaeological digs that were being looked at. We stopped to look at a doorway which supposedly was a jaguar head and it was representing getting eaten as you walked through, though I personally didn't see the jaguar. This was one of the funny parts of the tour as a lizard ran through the group scaring everyone. I thought this was super funny.
	We ended the tour by looking at the main castle. Which was translated to the “Sky house”. The entire castle was built on a massive stone platform which let you look out over the other buildings of the area. Additionally the throne/building was not oriented towards the cardinal directions but rather to where Venus set in the far east. This was supposed to represent the king being related or knowing the god relating to Venus.
	Uxmal was my favorite ruin we explored as it was both filled with a lot of good history as well as being a great sight. However after this we went to another hacienda, ‘Hacienda Yunku’. Here we had lunch and were then able to go into the first cenote of the trip.
	As I had never been in a cenote, and I did not know what to expect. But at first glance it was beautiful. The water was crystal clear and you could easily see fish swimming. This one also had two diving platforms that you could jump off of.
	Overall, it was definitely my most memorable day of the trip.
